®
4
improves the thermal performance of any system it is installed in, typically after 400 minimum runtime hours, 
between the Baseline and AERP measurements.
Efficiency improvement and restored capacity gained directly at each piece of HVACR equipment treated 
with substantial resultant energy savings is solely attributable to PermaFrost NMR®, the leading sustainable 
ECM in the HVACR industry. 
The results were formulated by applying the measured data results into the following thermodynamic 
engineering formulae:
 
• kW = Volts*Amps*Power Factor *√3/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• kWE/kWR = Actual kWEnergy/Actual kWRefrigeration 
 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = 1/( kWE/kWR)
 
• Delta-T = Chilled Water Evaporator Leaving – Entering Temperature
 
• Actual Capacity = Evaporator Water Flow Rate*1*Chilled Water Delta-T *4.185
Engineering Notes
Evaporator Flow Rate was operating at 143.36% of design during the pre and post testing, which resulted in the higher 
than normal capacity readings for Chiller #2. The goal of the technology is to improve the thermal transfer therefore as 
long as the flow rates are the same during the pre and post periods, the improvement percentage will remain the same. 
The focus of the pilot is on the improvement delta.  This percentage improvement can be used to project savings if the flow 
rates are held constant. Upon correction of flow in the evaporator to levels suggested by the manufacturer additional 
increases in thermal energy transfer will be apparent. This will deliver to the client, increased energy efficiencies and 
system capacity. While there could be some energy efficiencies regarding pump energy it will be negligible and pump 
energy was not considered due to the boundary of the measurement of the chiller.  
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
