®
3
The Purpose and Process of the Energy Savings Project
This report contains specific information regarding the PermaFrost NMR® ECM treatment of two HVAC Equipment Manufacturer 
RTHB300 screw chillers located at Property Management Company C of Pretoria’s International Site A.
 
Property Management Company C suffered thermal degradation in its International Site A chillers, as it does throughout its entire 
portfolio of HVACR equipment. It took the opportunity during late 2013/early 2014 to lower its excessive 
HVACR inventory runtime, and by doing so reduce energy waste, thereby creating a positive impact on our 
environment. 
The purpose of PermaFrost NMR® nanotechnology as an Energy Conservation Measure (ECM) is to correct 
the Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning and Refrigeration (HVACR) industry-wide problem of efficiency 
loss that exists within vapour compression systems utilising oil and refrigerant ~ commonly referred to as 
thermal degredation.
Participants included Engineering Consultant A Managing Director, [Client Representative] Pr. Eng.; [Senior Energy Engineer] Pr. Eng., Chief 
Forensic Mechanical Engineer and Director of Engineering for Powertron Global; under the direction of 
[Consulting P.E.], Pr. Technical Engineer MSAIEE, Property Management Company C. 
A diagnostic examination of Chiller #2 and then #1 pilot equipment was implemented to determine if the 
operational conditions of the systems were satisfactory. Testing was executed on the systems to determine key 
elements that Property Management Company C were concerned with relating to their chillers’ original design specifications: 
 
• Current BTUH capacity of the equipment in service without and then with the installed 
 
PermaFrost NMR® ECM.
 
• Actual Power Cost to deliver the chillers’ required cooling amount reflected in kWE/kWR 
 
measurement. 
 
• Mechanical soundness of the chillers and their ability to continue performing at, or close to,  
 
operational design.
Following the operational condition testing, Measurement and Verification (M&V) was conducted on Chiller 
#2 and then Chiller #1. A Baseline M&V was recorded and then the proper amount and specific type of 
PermaFrost NMR® technology, specially formulated for this type of system, was injected directly into the 
suction side of the evaporator barrel. The gestation period for each chiller was approximately six to ten (6-10) 
weeks. At the end of this gestation period, a post Avoided Energy-Reporting Period (AERP) M&V was 
recorded in the identical manner as the Baseline, taking special care to match the same motor amperage load, 
flow and entering condenser water temperature. The purpose of the testing was to show how the ECM 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
