®
10
Cost to Property Management Company C for Lost Eﬃciency
Left untreated, the chillers’ annual additional monetary cost with their reduced level of performance would be 
23.44% or R168,136 for Chiller #1, and 21.11% or R117,843 for Chiller #2. Extrapolated across all Property Management Company C’s 
HVACR portfolio, this total 259,980 kilowatts at a cost of R285,979 for just two chillers adds up to a significant 
waste of money on wasted energy.
Utilizing data in the charts on the previous pages, to obtain a true avoided energy cost and subsequent payback period 
for Property Management Company C for implementing the PermaFrost NMR® ECM, a detailed Regression Analysis is used to calculate 
the true energy savings resulting from the improvement in capacity. This increased capacity reduces the annual kWh 
expended in the Avoided Energy Reporting Post Analysis Period. ROI comes from determining what the cost to run 
the chiller was when operating at the original energy profile to produce the newly restored amount of available tonnage 
capacity and then subtracting the revised cost to run the chiller at the same restored tonnage after the PermaFrost 
NMR® ECM was installed. This regression analysis is the most industry wide accepted method of accounting for the 
reduced number of hours the chiller will now operate due to the restored capacity. This restored capacity allows the 
chiller to reach the chilled water set point with increased efficiency resulting in reduced compressor demand loading.
Additional kWh Wasted at International Site A per Year
Additional Cost to International Site A per Year
Cost of Waste
Reduced level of Performance Causes 
259,980 kWh  
R285,979 /Year
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
