3
Energy Conservation Method (ECM)
The content detailed in this report will first demonstrate the ability of the pilot DX units to perform prior to 
and following the PermaFrost NMR® being installed. The report will also illustrate the amount of thermal 
degradation that has occurred due in large part to thermal degradation within the heat exchangers and how much of 
that has been restored.
 
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP as the M&V plan. 
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• Tons = (Airflow * 4.5 * Enthalpy Delta) / 12,000 
 
• kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
 
Notes
Following a diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment to determine the operational condition of the system was 
satisfactory, Baseline M&V data was collected and recorded by the M&V team. Approximately Four hundred runtime 
hours after installation of the PermaFrost NMR® ECM, the M&V team returned on a very similar weather day to the 
Baseline to take Post M&V measurements in the identical fashion as in the Baseline. The delta of these measurements and 
associated calculations show the amount of capacity restored.
The performance and capacity rating of commercial & industrial air conditioning & heat pump equipment is determined 
by adherence to the standard AHRI 340/360-2007. In that standard it states that the factory listed nameplate data 
identifying capacity is based upon three 10 minute tests where the condenser is exposed to 95 degrees dry bulb and 75 
degrees wet bulb and the evaporator is exposed to 80 degrees dry bulb and 67 degrees wet bulb temperatures. These 
temperatures are also based on the standard calculation of 400 CFM per ton for comfort cooling.
As was in this test at Energy Solutions Company, the units were not in a sustained static environment which caused the existing weather and 
interior operating conditions to be utilized to demonstrate performance and capacity thus when these thresholds are not 
met but are less than, the capacity of the equipment will increase in a non proportional manner. When measuring 
caparison performance data under these conditions, what must be accomplished is that the baseline and post ranges of 
environments be duplicated and in this test these conditions were met. This is why the capacity of both units measured 
before and after the ECM show higher than the nominal rated tons. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
