2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of two DX units that 
support the Energy Solutions Company Holding Company Headquarters, Caguas, Puerto Rico.
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the pilot DX units before and 
after the installation of the PermaFrost NMR® ECM to determine the impact on the three key elements that 
greatly affect Energy Solutions Company’s HVAC power bill as they relate to the original design specifications: 
 
1.  The cooling capacity the DX units are capable of producing after 12 years in service. 
 
2.  The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the DX units are delivering  
     
     as reflected in the kW/ton measurement before and after the ECM is administered. 
 
3.  The thermal dynamic ability of the DX units to perform at or close to operational design before and 
 
     after the ECM is administered.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team consisted of Powertron 
Global’s Director of Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer] and for Energy Solutions Company, [Client Sales Manager] (Sales Manager), 
[Client Service Manager] (Service Manager), [Client Service Supervisor] (Service Supervisor) & Eng. 
[Client Technical Specialist] III Gonzalez, CBCP-IT, PCF.
Notes
The units measured services the main Energy Solutions Company office building. Both the baseline and post measurements were taken with 
outside air temperatures of 89 degrees. 
The following IPMVP data points were recorded on February 18, 2015 using recently calibrated devices by NIST 
(National Institutes of Standards and Technology) to insure measurement accuracy. The DX unit was then treated with 
PermaFrost NMR® on the same day and allowed to run until April 28, 2015 to ensure the patented surface science 
nanotechnology had ample time to seat into all the metal surfaces of the heat exchangers. All measurements were taken at 
100% load and at similar return air and outdoor air temperatures.
The collection of the data in both the baseline and post periods was collected by Powertron Global® under the watchful eye 
of Energy Solutions Company personnel. The Energy Solutions Company technicians, maintain the unit and oversaw this energy study. The boundary of the testing 
was the DX units and nothing else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance calculations is very high.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
