Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces. 
A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment was implemented to determine if the operational 
conditions of the CRAC units were satisfactory. Baseline M&V were recorded on both units and then the 
proper amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® was injected. The gestation period for the Major Defense Contractor pilot 
was 4 weeks on these particular units to allow them to achieve the required ~250 hours of runtime on each 
to ensure adequate performance improvement time. At the end of this gestation period, Post M&V results 
were taken in the identical manner as in the baseline, taking special care to match the same or very similar 
entering air dry bulb and wet bulb temperatures, entering condenser water temperatures (CDW), and of 
course outdoor air temperatures (OAT). These are three of the most critical variables to contend with in an 
in-situ testing situation. When analyzing all of the data baseline and post data, no adjustments for weather 
were necessary.
The following report produces the utilization of the International Performance Measurement and 
Verification Protocol (IPMVP) as the M&V plan. Major Defense Contractor Facility Engineer [Client Representative] witnessed the 
collection of all the data used in this report. The final calculations were performed by Powertron Global®’s 
Forensic Mechanical Engineer, [Senior Energy Engineer].  
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
BTUH = CFM * 4.5 (standard air) * Calculated Enthalpy Delta
 
kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage
 
Percentage Eﬃciency = Measured BTUH / Manufacturers Design BTUH
 
Coeﬃcient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412) 
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
