PermaFrost NMR® Eﬃciency Report
Major Defense Contractor
August, 2013
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure (ECM) 
PermaFrost NMR® in the two CRAC (Computer Room Air Conditioning) units supporting a critical data 
center room within the Major Defense Contractor technical Services facility at [Virginia Facility Address]. Detailed 
forensic performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the two nominal 6-ton CRAC 
units using R410A refrigerant. Following testing, the CRAC units were treated with the proper amount and 
type of the PermaFrost NMR® technology specially formulated for these types of systems.  Measurement 
and Verification (M&V) was conducted pre-installation and post-gestation.
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly 
at the units was solely attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. 
This is a result of the reversal of thermal inefficiency on heat exchange surfaces.  
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, the 
CRAC units showed an effective net average 29.5% reduction in 
kW/ton based on the exact capacity measured in the baseline M&V 
and the post gestation M&V. With each of the nominal 6-ton CRAC 
units operating at 100%, the units showed an average 23% reduction 
in kWh while simultaneously producing an average increase in 
system efficiency of 29.1%. Prior to the ECM, the units each produced 
an average of 4.76 tons of cooling as measured in-situ. After the ECM, 
the average tonnage produced increased to 6.07 tons or 104% of 
original design specification. This 27.5% average capacity increase 
and 33% improvement in refrigerant approach from the baseline 
performance levels led to an effective average increase in COP of 
31%. All of these factors directly correlate to what Major Defense Contractor will 
realize in energy savings as they operate these CRAC units in the 
future as well as other HVAC equipment like Roof Top Units and 
Chillers under the similar parameters.
Energy Science Division
Unit #8 on left was not put into service until 
Nov 2011 while Unit #9 on right has been in 
operation since 2007. The difference in age 
and total runtime clearly presented itself 
during the testing since both are key variables 
directly related to the amount thermal inefficiency in a 
system and the corresponding loss of 
performance over time. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
