Measurement and Veriﬁcation Protocol
Powertron Global used the International Performance Measurement and Verification Protocol (IPMVP) to 
collect and prepare the detailed pre- and post-installation performance data included in this report.  The 
Association of Energy Engineers (AEE), The American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and 
Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), and The Efficiency Valuation Organization (EVO) accept the 
IPMVP as a global methodology for determining the effectiveness of energy conservation measures (ECM).
There are four distinct options in the IPMVP protocol for energy conservation professionals to utilize: 
options A, B, C and D.  Powertron Global® used Retrofit Isolation Methodology (Option B) to develop this 
report. Option B is defined as: All parameter measurements with the boundary of the ECM (PermaFrost 
NMR®) as the single source of measurement. Savings are determined by field measurement of the energy 
use of the ECM affected equipment or system and any performance enhancements versus the baseline data.
Measurement frequency ranges from short term to continuous, depending on the expected variations in the 
savings and the length of the reporting period.  For the boundary utilized for Option B short-term 
measurements are very useful when the variables are contained. The savings are calculated by short-term 
measurements of baseline and reporting period energy, and /or engineering computations using 
measurements of proxies of energy use.
The final computation follows the formula:
Energy Science Division
Option B savings = Baseline Energy – Avoided Energy Reporting Period (AERP)
      
                     +/- Routine Adjustments +/- Non-Routine Adjustments
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
