Objectives
The four key objectives for this jointly-conducted PermaFrost NMR® pilot study between EET, Powertron Global 
and Regional Telecom were all achieved.  They included: 
 
1. Determine that the “as-is” capacity and efﬁciency of the pilot cooling system supporting the 
 
   Regional Telecom complex had degraded by at least 10% after 14 years in operation.  
 
2. Demonstrate at least 10% performance improvement in tonnage and/or corresponding kW/ton and 
 
   energy reduction in the pilot cooling system four weeks after installing PermaFrost NMR®. 
 
3. Demonstrate the ability of the pilot cooling system to produce cooler, drier air as measured in both Dry 
 
   Bulb and Wet Bulb deltas after being treated.  
 
4. To support an effective business case for further deployments of the ECM within the Regional Telecom 
 
   portfolio of properties, demonstrate ﬁnancial beneﬁts associated with efﬁciency improvements realized 
 
   over the duration of the study. These beneﬁts must be equivalent to a 24-month or less payback to 
 
   Regional Telecom on their initial project costs.  
ECM Product Brief
PermaFrost NMR® is a multi-patented surface science nanotechnology that uses Nucleo Molecular Regenerative 
(NMR®) technology as its core agent. A sustainable, one-time treatment with no down time required, PermaFrost 
NMR® lasts for the remaining life of any type of climate control system in which it is installed.  The direct beneﬁts 
of PermaFrost NMR® are improved cooling efﬁciency and increased capacity. 
Methodology
After verifying the amount of air ﬂowing across the evaporator coils before beginning each pilot, the subsequent 
measurements used in the efﬁciency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with Option B of 
the IPMVP (International Measurement and Veriﬁcation Protocol). 
The results presented below were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic 
engineering formulas:
 
• kW= Volts * Amps * Power Factor * Sq Rt 3 /1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• kW/ton= Actual Measured Energy / Actual Measured Capacity 
 
• Coefﬁcient of Performance (COP)= 12 / (kW/ton) /3.412
 
• Actual Cooling Capacity per Hour= (Measured CFM * 4.5 * Enthalpy Delta T) / 12,000 BTU
4
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
