 Study Overview
This report details the results of the recently completed comprehensive energy performance study conducted at 
the Regional Telecom Headquarters in Show Low, AZ. 
Running from August 21 to October 5, 2015, the pilot was designed to illustrate the positive impact the 
PermaFrost NMR® energy control measures (ECM) would have on the performance of the wall mounted cell tower 
shelter air conditioning system.  
 As demonstrated in this ﬁeld trial, PermaFrost NMR® restores the cooling capacity on the systems lost over time due to 
thermal degradation of the heat exchange surfaces. The ECM will beneﬁt Regional Telecom in any or all of the following ways:
 
• Restore capacity of the cooling systems to better satisfy ﬂuctuating shelter loads
 
 
• Produce additional cooling system redundancy at no extra cost or interruption to operations 
 
• Improve cooling system efﬁciency, lowering cost to produce each ton of cooling required 
 
• Restoring thermal efﬁciency, allowing cooling systems to achieve thermostat set points faster
 
• Improve cooling system performance, reducing runtime and extending equipment life by 15%+ 
 
• Reduce amp draw and kW and overall kWh consumption
 
• Reducing operating systems pressures in compressors, reducing unscheduled service calls 
The improvements demonstrated in this or any ﬁeld test resulting from PermaFrost NMR® are dependent on 
factors such as age, condition, service history, runtime of one or both compressors and the design and 
application of each system. The results in this pilot were very consistent with 10+ year historical performance 
averages as well as the recent laboratory study completed in May, 2015 on DX equipment by Underwriters 
Laboratories (UL) in their testing chambers in [Texas Location], TX.
Setting the Stage for the Study
The location chosen for this pilot (#1) is a standard cell tower shelter supported by two 3-ton wall-mounted 
cooling systems operating in a redundant fashion. The systems are rotated so runtime on each is balanced out 
over time. The primary cooling system is normally set to 72 degrees as it was for the pilot, while the back-up 
cooling system is set for 78 degrees so it only operates when the shelter load gets so heavy that the single 
cooling system can no longer keep up or it malfunctions. At the start of the pilot the average temperature in the 
data center was 73 degrees.  In normal late summer weather, the pilot cooling system #1 was able to satisfy its 72 
degrees set point and cycle off on a regular basis. By restoring the majority of any lost capacity, once PermaFrost 
NMR® is allowed to work, the expectation is that the cooling systems should produce cooler, drier air and thus 
reach set point quicker so the system runs less.  
2
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
