Test Descriptions and Results 
 
 
 
 
UL 984A: Testing UL classified lubricant for use with compressor motor insulating materials and 
refrigerants. 
UL has developed specifications to classify lubricant used in sealed motor compressors of air conditioning and 
refrigeration equipment.  The UL program covers lubricants and the indicated refrigerants for all 
insulating materials used in industry-recognized hermetic refrigerant motor-compressors. 
 
 
ASHRAE 86 - 1994: Completed Refrigeration oil floc point, °F. 
 
The temperature in which waxy materials in lubricating oil separate from a mixture of oil and refrigerant, giving a 
cloudy appearance. This test is important in that it evaluates the tendency of refrigeration oils to plug expansion valves 
or capillaries in refrigeration systems. 
Results: - 60°F 
 
 
ASHRAE 99: Completed Refrigeration oil description. 
 
Refrigeration oils can be described as those that operate with certain values of different refrigerants. Separation, 
temperature, and viscosity are a few examples. This test examines these parameters and defines 
oil as refrigerant compatible. 
 
Results: refrigerant compatible 
 
 
ASTM D1500: Completed Color scale 
 
This test is used to compare a range of colors against the colors of other petroleum products. This is the most common 
test, extensively used for industrial and process oils. 
Results: <.05 
 
 
ASTM D3233: Completed Extreme pressure additive. 
 
Lubricant additives that prevent metal surfaces from seizing under conditions of extreme pressure. At the high 
local temperatures associated with metal-to-metal contact, an extreme pressure additive 
combines chemically with the metal to form a film that prevents the welding of opposing aspirates 
(microscopic projections on metal surfaces resulting from normal surface finishing processes) and the 
incidental scoring that is destructive to sliding surfaces under high loads. 
Results: 2400ft/lbs@1 min before failure. Exceeds standards 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
