 
Appendix D Users of IPMVP         119 
 
Good advance recording of static factors in the M&V Plan (Chapter 5) and diligent monitoring of 
conditions after retrofit (Chapter 8.2) will help identify baseline change.  
Plant managers would normally employ long-term energy monitoring to continuously minimize 
energy waste. Energy-performance contractors may focus instead on short-term monitoring to 
demonstrate their performance (Chapter 4.5.2).  
For retrofits that may be easily turned off temporarily, such as a heat recovery device, 
sequential short-term tests, which use the On/Off Test technique (Chapter 4.5.3), can 
demonstrate performance. 
The complexity of the M&V system’s meter design (Chapters 4.8.3 and 8.12) and computations 
should also consider M&V costs, the expected magnitude of the savings, project economics and 
desired accuracy of reporting (Chapters 8.3 - 8.5 and Appendix B). 
The prices used for valuing the savings should be those established in the energy performance 
contract (Chapter 8.1). 
The energy user may hire a verifier, separate from the energy-performance contractor (Chapter 
8.6) when he or she lacks the ability to review an M&V Plan or savings report. 
Appendix A contains examples of industrial applications of IPMVP (Sections A-4, A-5, while A-2, 
A-3.1 and A-6 relate to technologies found in most industrial plants). 
D-3   Industrial and Building Energy Users Doing Their Own Retrofits 
Energy users often install ECMs themselves. When they are confident about achieving the 
planned savings, a ‘no M&V’ approach leaves the entire budget available for retrofits. However 
energy users may need to justify investments, add credibility to requests for future investments, 
or quantify uncertain performance. 
M&V design issues would be similar to those described in Chapters 1.4.1. or 1.4.2, above, 
except that there is no division of responsibility between energy user and an energy 
performance contractor. Reporting costs may be lower because of less formal reporting. 
D-4   Facility Managers Accounting For Energy/Water Budget Variances 
To manage energy costs successfully, a facility manager should understand the relationship 
between energy use and facility operating parameters. Important operating parameters include 
occupancy, production rate, and weather. If a facility manager neglects these independent 
variables, he or she may struggle to explain variances from predicted energy budgets. He/she 
also risks future budgeting errors. Baseline adjustments are also necessary to account for non-
routine changes at the facility. 
Even if no savings are planned, the calculation techniques of Chapter 4 can help to explain 
energy-budget variances. Therefore, M&V Plans (Chapter 5) are useful with or without retrofits. 
Whole facility, Option C methods (Chapter 4.9), may be used, based on main (utility) meters or 
sub-meters for major sections of the facility. If sub-meters are in place on specific pieces of 
equipment (Chapter 4.8) they may help allocate costs to user departments or tenants within the 
facility (using Option A or B approaches). 
Components critical to the variations in the overall energy budget may be isolated for separate 
metering of either their energy use (Option B, Chapter 4.8.2) or of a key parameter of energy 
use (Option A, Chapter 4.8.1). Both of these cases call for long-term metering. Pay close 
attention to the cost of maintaining and calibrating meters and managing data received from the 
meters (see Chapter 4.8.3 and 8.12). 
