16        IPMVP Framework and Options 
 
 
 
4.6  Overview Of IPMVP Options  
The energy quantities in the several forms of Equation 1) can be measured by one or more of 
the following techniques:  
 
Utility or fuel supplier invoices, or reading utility meters and making the same adjustments to 
the readings that the utility makes.  
 
Special meters isolating an ECM or portion of a facility from the rest of the facility. 
Measurements may be periodic for short intervals, or continuous throughout the baseline or 
reporting periods.  
 
Separate measurements of parameters used in computing energy use. For example, 
equipment operating parameters of electrical load and operating hours can be measured 
separately and multiplied together to compute the equipment’s energy use. 
 
Measurement of proven proxies for energy use. For example, if the energy use of a motor 
has been correlated to the output signal from the variable speed drive controlling the motor, 
the output signal could be a proven proxy for motor energy. 
 
Computer simulation that is calibrated to some actual performance data for the system or 
facility being modeled. One example of computer simulation is DOE-2 analysis for buildings 
(Option D only).  
If the a energy value is already known with adequate accuracy or when it is more costly to 
measure than justified by the circumstances, then measurement of energy may not be 
necessary or appropriate. In these cases, estimates may be made of some ECM parameters, 
but others must be measured (Option A only).   
IPMVP provides four Options for determining savings (A, B, C and D). The choice among the 
Options involves many considerations including the location of the measurement boundary (see 
Chapter 4.4). If it is decided to determine savings at the facility level, Option C or D may be 
favored. However if only the performance of the ECM itself is of concern, a retrofit-isolation 
technique may be more suitable (Option A, B or D).  
What Basis for Adjustment, or Which Type of ‘Savings?’ 
Factors to consider when choosing between avoided energy use and normalized savings: 
“Avoided Energy Use” style of savings (Equation 1b)):  
- are dependent upon the reporting period’s operating conditions. Even though savings 
can be properly adjusted for phenomena such as weather, the level of reported savings 
depends upon the actual weather.  
- cannot be directly compared with savings predicted under baseline conditions. 
“Normalized savings” style of savings (Equation 1c): 
- are unaffected by reporting-period conditions since the fixed set of conditions are 
established once and not changed. 
- can be directly compared with savings predicted under the same set of fixed conditions.  
- can only be reported after a full cycle of reporting-period energy use, so that the 
mathematical correlation between reporting-period energy and operating conditions can 
be derived. 
