 
4
“PermaFrost NMR® will continue to work at the surface as long as there is 
nothing changing internally in a system to deactivate the product. The tests in the 
oil analysis prove that PermaFrost NMR® will not separate under all applicable 
tolerances and will remain active under standard operating conditions.  In addition 
to the actual bonding, chemically the molecular weight of PermaFrost NMR® is 
heavier than oil and water and will not be lifted away due to floating or 
displacement by refrigerant oil, liquid refrigerant or any other lighter fluid.  (As 
an example, in a bowl of water, refrigerant oil will float and PermaFrost NMR® 
will sink to the bottom proving it is heavier than both water and oil.)  The 
combination of surface bonding and molecular weight keep PermaFrost NMR® 
on the metal surfaces preventing the refrigerant oil from reversing the effect.   
Any solution must create a bond to the surface and space lattice and remain in 
place or the product will work itself out of the heat exchangers and the benefits 
will fade quickly.” 
 
The fourth question, and focus of this report, is whether the efficiency can be demonstrated 
under a series of conditions, both in-situ and controlled.  There are protocols for determining 
savings, but from a power supply perspective, less draw on the grid (kW) is desirable.  One 
problem with any technology such as this is that there have been several predecessor products 
that claimed to provide such benefits. The older studies of several additives all showed no 
significant savings, which is one reason why power providers may be reluctant to pursue these 
types of technological options.  
 
 A different research result could open the door to stating that some refrigerant-based surface 
science technologies can produce results that save energy.  Hence, demonstrating the savings in-
situ and in a controlled environment is beneficial.  There is long term data for demonstrating 
performance advantages, but the variables cannot be controlled for these sites.  However, 
because of the chemical nature of the product, if it works in the short term it should also work in 
the long term.  The properties appear to make it less likely to deteriorate than the oil in the 
compressors that may last up to 15-20 years in some sealed systems.  There should be interest 
from the owners and power providers in a thermal surface science technology for HVAC systems 
if measurable operations savings could be achieved.   
 
Therefore the fourth question can be answered if a protocol was developed and a series of HVAC 
systems were tested, both in-situ and under controlled conditions.  The International Performance 
Measurement and Verification Protocol (IPMVP) is the widely referenced framework for 
“measuring” energy savings at each site.   IPMVP presents common terminology and defines full 
disclosure, to support rational discussion of measurement and verification issues. A primary 
purpose of IPMVP is to publish current good measurement and verification practice, as 
reassurance for the public about savings reports. Performance contracting industry growth in the 
USA was facilitated by the publication of the IPMVP. 
 
The Association of Energy Engineers (AEE), American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and 
Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), and The Efficiency Valuation Organization (EVO) 
recognize the IPMVP as a global methodology for determining the effectiveness of energy 
conservation methods and products. There are four distinct options in the IPMVP protocol for 
energy conservation professionals to utilize: options A, B, C and D.  
 
