 
Definitions         55 
 
CHAPTER 9   DEFINITIONS 
 
Terms are italicized in the text to signify that they have the following meanings: 
Adjusted-baseline energy:  The energy use of the baseline period, adjusted to a different set 
of operating conditions. 
Avoided energy use:  The reduction in energy use that occurred in the reporting period, 
relative to what would have occurred if the facility had been equipped and operated as it was in 
the baseline period but under reporting period operating conditions. (see Chapter 4.6.1). “Cost 
avoidance” is the monetary equivalent of “avoided energy use.” Both are commonly called 
savings. Normalized savings is another type of savings.  
Baseline Adjustments: The non-routine adjustments (Chapters 4.6 and 8.2) arising during the 
reporting period from changes in any energy governing characteristic of the facility within the 
measurement boundary, except the named independent variables used for routine adjustments. 
Baseline Energy: The energy use occurring during the baseline period without adjustments. 
Baseline Period:  The period of time chosen to represent operation of the facility or system 
before implementation of an ECM. This period may be as short as the time required for an 
instantaneous measurement of a constant quantity, or long enough to reflect one full operating 
cycle of a system or facility with variable operations. 
Baseline:  Pertaining to the baseline period. 
Confidence Level: The probability that any measured value will fall within a stated range of 
precision. See Appendix B-1.1. 
Constant:  A term used to describe a physical parameter which does not change during a 
period of interest. Minor variations may be observed in the parameter while still describing it as 
constant. The magnitude of variations that are deemed to be ‘minor’ must be reported in the 
M&V Plan. 
Commissioning:  A process for achieving, verifying and documenting the performance of 
equipment to meet the operational needs of the facility within the capabilities of the design, and 
to meet the design documentation and the owner's functional criteria, including preparation of 
operating personnel. 
CV(RMSE):  See Appendix B-2.2.2 
Coefficient of Variance (cv):  See Appendix B-3.1  
Cycle:  The period of time between the start of successive similar operating modes of a facility 
or piece of equipment whose energy use varies in response to operating procedures or 
independent variables. For example the cycle of most buildings is 12 months, since their energy 
use responds to outdoor weather which varies on an annual basis. Another example is the 
weekly cycle of an industrial process which operates differently on Sundays than during the rest 
of the week. 
Degree Day: A degree day is measure of the heating or cooling load on a facility created by 
outdoor temperature. When the mean daily outdoor temperature is one degree below a stated 
reference temperature such as 18oC, for one day, it is defined that there is one heating degree 
day. If this temperature difference prevailed for ten days there would be ten heating degree 
days counted for the total period. If the temperature difference were to be 12 degrees for 10 
days, 120 heating degree days would be counted. When the ambient temperature is below the 
reference temperature it is defined that heating degree days are counted. When ambient 
temperatures are above the reference, cooling degree days are counted. Any reference 
