 
IPMVP Framework and Options       31 
 
5. Evaluate patterns in the differences between simulation results and calibration data. Bar 
charts, monthly percent difference time-series graphs, and monthly x-y scatter plots help to 
identify the error patterns. The calibration accuracy should be established in the M&V Plan 
to accommodate the M&V budget.  
6. Revise input data in step 1 and repeat steps 3 and 4 to bring predicted results within the 
calibration specifications in 5, above. Collect more actual operating data from the facility to 
meet the calibration specification if necessary.  
The creation and calibration of a simulation is time consuming. Using monthly rather than hourly 
energy data helps to limit the effort needed for calibration. However if Option D will be used to 
determine savings at the ECM level, calibration of major end-uses, systems, and/or equipment 
impacted by the ECMs is recommended.  
4.9.3 Option D: Calculations 
Savings can be determined using calibrated simulation results representing the baseline energy 
and/or the reporting-period energy. For projects with a physical baseline, the two calibrated 
models include one with the ECMs and one without them. For projects with a hypothetical 
baseline, calibrated models may include the hypothetical baseline and the as-built (reporting 
period) conditions, but measured data will only be available for calibration under as-built 
conditions. In either case, both models and measured energy data must be under the same set 
of operating conditions.  
Savings with Option D can be estimated using two forms of Equation 1), Equations 1f) and 
1g)14. Both forms presume that the calibration ‘error’ equally affects both baseline and reporting 
period models. The same savings will be determined from the two equations for any given set of 
data and simulations. 
 
Savings  =  Baseline energy from the calibrated model [hypothetical or without ECMs] 
 
– Reporting-period energy from the calibrated model [with ECMs] 
1f) 
 
One of the model-derived energy terms in Equation 1f) may be replaced by the actual measured 
energy. However, you must adjust your calculations for the calibration error for each month in 
the calibration period, using. Equation 1g): 
 
Savings  =  Baseline energy from the calibrated model [hypothetical or without ECMs] 
 
 
-       Actual calibration-period energy 
 
 
+/-    Calibration error in the corresponding calibration reading 
1g) 
 
Equation 1may be most easily understood by non-technical persons, since the final savings 
computation uses actual metered data rather than only the results of simulation models. 
4.9.4 Option D: Ongoing Savings Reporting 
If multi-year performance evaluation is required, Option D may be used for the first year after 
the ECMs are installed. In later years, Option C may be less costly than Option D if you use as 
the baseline the meter data from the first year of steady operation after installation. Then Option 
C is used to determine whether energy use changes from the first year of operation after the 
ECM was installed. In this situation, the first year of steady operation’s energy use would be 
                                                  
14 Equations 1f) and 1g) are the same as Methods 1 and 2, respectively, found in IPMVP Vol III Part 1. 
