 
Preface       ix 
 
Efficiency Valuation Organization and IPMVP 
This International Performance Measurement and Verification Protocol (IPMVP) is sponsored by 
the Efficiency Valuation Organization (EVO), a non-profit private corporation. EVO envisions a 
global marketplace that correctly values the efficient use of natural resources and utilizes end-
use efficiency as a viable alternative to new energy supply. EVO’s mission is to develop and 
promote standardized methods to quantify and manage the risks and benefits associated with 
business transactions on end-use energy efficiency, renewable energy, and water efficiency. 
EVO is a subscriber-based organization with supporters around the world.  
EVO is grateful to its volunteers who develop and maintain EVO documents. Members of our 
current Board and Committees active in developing this document appear in the 
Acknowledgements section, above, along with Organizational Subscribers.  
EVO maintains a website (www.evo-world.org) which contains: 
 
A subscribers’ section with access to pre-release copies of some EVO documents, 
reference materials, newsletters, discussion forums, and links to other resources; 
 
Latest released editions of the documents, and archival editions; 
 
Lists of the current committee members and supporters;  
 
Invitation for comments on IPMVP documents to the email address of: ipmvprev@evo-
world.org ; 
 
Information on EVO’s training and certification programs;    
EVO documents should include unique methods from around the world. Therefore, EVO is 
developing international, regional groups to document international M&V methods. To 
participate as a volunteer or subscriber, please visit the EVO website, www.evo-world.org, for 
current contact information. 
EVO’s current activities and plans are summarized below.   
EVO’s Current Publications 
Currently EVO has four publications available on its website: 
IPMVP Volume I  Concepts and Options for Determining Energy and Water Savings 
Volume I defines terminology and suggests good practices for documenting the effectiveness of 
energy or water efficiency projects that are implemented in buildings and industrial facilities.  
These terms and practices help managers to prepare M&V Plans, which specify how savings 
will be measured for each project. The successful M&V Plan enables verification by requiring 
transparent reports of actual project performance. 
IPMVP Volume II  Indoor Environmental Quality (IEQ) Issues 
Volume II reviews IEQ issues as they may be influenced by an energy efficiency project. It 
highlights good project design and implementation practices for maintaining acceptable indoor 
conditions under an energy efficiency project. It advises on means of measuring IEQ 
parameters to substantiate whether indoor conditions have changed from the conditions of the 
baseline when determining savings. Volume II has been archived, and remains available in the 
archives section of the public library on EVO’s website. 
IPMVP Volume III   Applications 
Volume III contains specific application guidance manuals for Volume I. The two current 
applications manuals address new building construction (Part I) and renewable energy additions 
