118        Appendix D Users of IPMVP 
 
or the broader the boundary of measurement (Chapter 4.4), the more attention must be paid to 
the possibility of baseline change after retrofit. This possibility requires good advance recording 
of static factors in the M&V Plan and diligent monitoring of conditions after retrofit (Chapter 8.2). 
The complexity of the M&V system’s meter design (Chapters 4.8.3 and 8.11) and computations 
should also consider M&V costs, the expected magnitude of the savings, project economics and 
desired accuracy of reporting (Chapters 8.3 - 8.5, and Appendix B). 
The prices used for monetizing the energy/water/demand units saved should be those 
established in the contract (Chapter 8.1). 
Where an energy user feels it does not have the capability to review an M&V Plan or savings 
report, it may hire a verifier, separate from the energy-performance contractor (Chapter 8.6). 
Appendix A contains examples IPMVP applications to buildings (Sections A-7, A-8, A-9, while 
A-2, A-3 and A-6 relate to technologies found in most buildings). 
D-2   Energy-Performance Contractors and Their Industrial Customers  
The primary purpose of M&V for industrial energy-performance contacts is usually to 
demonstrate the short-term performance of a retrofit project. Following such demonstration the 
plant management takes over responsibility for operation, and usually does not seek an ongoing 
relationship with an ESCO. The M&V Plan becomes part of the energy performance contract 
terms, and defines the measurements and computations to determine payments or demonstrate 
compliance with any guaranteed level of performance. 
Industrial processes often involve complex relationships between energy use and a wider range 
of energy-governing variables than do buildings. In addition to weather, parameters such as 
product type, raw material variations, production rate and shift scheduling may be considered. 
Use caution selecting the independent variables to be used (Appendix B-2.1). The analysis 
becomes very difficult if attempting to identify savings at the main plant energy meters, 
especially if there is more than one product type being produced in the plant.  
ECM-Isolation Options (Chapter 4.8) help to minimize the complications from production 
variables that are usually unrelated to terms of the performance contract. Retrofit Isolation 
narrows the measurement boundary to just those systems whose energy performance can be 
easily compared to production variables. The installation of isolation meters for M&V may also 
provide helpful feedback for process control.   
M&V costs may be controlled by considering the responsibilities of all parties to the energy-
performance contract. Where some parameters can be estimated with accuracy sufficient for all 
parties, Option A (Chapter 4.8.1) may be most economical. For example, a contractor who 
agrees to increase furnace efficiency may demonstrate the change in furnace energy use at 
peak load after installation of a flue gas heat recovery device. He is not responsible for ongoing 
energy use of the furnace, which is governed by production parameters beyond his control. 
However, if the contractor agrees instead to reduce furnace energy use, retrofitted furnace 
energy use is compared to the predicted energy requirements of the original furnace over a time 
period. In this latter case Option B (Chapter 4.8.2) governs the agreement if a meter measures 
the furnace’s fuel consumption. Option C (Chapter 4.9) governs the agreement if main plant 
utility meters or departmental sub-meters measure total energy performance of the plant or a 
department within the plant. 
Take care when using ECM-Isolation techniques to consider all energy flows affected by the 
ECM (Chapter 4.4), including interactive effects.  
Energy-performance contracts in industrial plants often require measurements for a short 
reporting period after retrofit. Longer reporting periods (Chapter 4.5.2), or broader boundaries of 
measurement (Chapter 4.4), require more attention to possible baseline change after retrofit. 
