 
IPMVP Framework and Options       23 
 
Option A Savings  =  Estimated Value x (Baseline-Period, measured parameter  
 
 
 
 
 
 
– Reporting-period, measured parameter) 
1d) 
Option A: Installation Verification  
Since some values may be estimated under Option A, great care is needed to review the 
engineering design and installation to ensure that the estimates are realistic, achievable, and 
based on equipment that should truly produce savings as intended.  
At defined intervals during the reporting period, the installation should be re-inspected to verify 
continued existence of the equipment and its proper operation and maintenance. Such re-
inspections will ensure continuation of the potential to generate predicted savings and validate 
estimated parameters. The frequency of these re-inspections is determined by the likelihood of 
performance changes. Such likelihood can be established through initial frequent inspections to 
establish the stability of equipment existence and performance.  
An example of a situation needing routine re-inspection is a lighting retrofit. You can determine 
savings by sampling of the performance of fixtures and counting the number of operating 
fixtures. In this case, the continued existence of the fixtures and operation of the lamps is critical 
to the savings determination. Similarly, where the settings of controls are assumed, but subject 
to tampering, regular recordings of control settings or actual equipment functions can limit the 
uncertainty of the estimated values.  
Option A: Cost  
Savings determinations under Option A can be less costly than under other Options, since the 
cost of estimating a parameter is often significantly less than the cost of measurement. However 
in some situations where estimation is the only possible route, a good estimate may be costlier 
than if direct measurement were possible. Cost planning for Option A should consider all 
elements: analysis, estimation, meter installation, and the ongoing cost to read and record data.  
Option A: Best Applications  
In addition to the retrofit isolation best applications in Chapter 4.8, above, Option A is best 
applied where:  
 
Estimation of non-key parameters may avoid possibly difficult non-routine adjustments when 
future changes happen within the measurement boundary.  
 
The uncertainty created by estimations is acceptable.  
 
The continued effectiveness of the ECM can be assessed by simple routine re-testing of key 
parameters.  
 
Estimation of some parameters is less costly than measurement of them in Option B or 
simulation in Option D. 
 
The key parameter(s) used in computing savings can be readily identified. Key parameters 
are parameters used to judge a project’s or contractor’s performance.  
4.7.2  Option B: Retrofit Isolation: All Parameter Measurement 
Option B, Retrofit Isolation: All Parameter Measurement, requires measurement of all Equation 
1) energy quantities, or all parameters needed to compute energy.   
The savings created by most types of ECMs can be determined with Option B. However, the 
degree of difficulty and costs increase as metering complexity increases. Option B methods will 
generally be more difficult and costly than those of Option A. However, Option B will produce 
more certain results where load and/or savings patterns are variable. These additional costs 
may be justifiable if a contractor is responsible for all factors affecting energy savings. 
