24        IPMVP Framework and Options 
 
Option B: Calculations 
General Equation 1) in Chapter 4.1 is used in all IPMVP adherent computations. However under 
Option B, there may be no need for adjustments, routine or non-routine, depending upon the 
location of the measurement boundary, the length of the reporting period, or the amount of time 
between baseline and reporting period measurements. Therefore, for Option B, Equation 1 may 
simplify down to: 
 
Option B Savings  =  Baseline Energy  -  Reporting-Period Energy  
1e) 
 
Option B: Best Applications  
In addition to the retrofit-isolation methods in Chapter 4.8, above, Option B is best applied 
where:  
 
Meters added for isolation purposes will be used for other purposes such as operational 
feedback or tenant billing.  
 
Measurement of all parameters is less costly than simulation in Option D. 
 
Savings or operations within the measurement boundary are variable.  
4.7.3 Retrofit Isolation Measurement Issues 
Retrofit isolation usually requires the addition of special meters, on either a short term or 
permanent basis. These meters may be installed during an energy audit to help characterize 
energy use before design of the ECM. Or meters may be installed to measures baseline 
performance for an M&V Plan.  
You can measure temperature, humidity, flow, pressure, equipment runtime, electricity or 
thermal energy, for example, at the measurement boundary. Follow good measurement 
practices to enable calculation of energy savings with reasonable accuracy and repeatability. 
Measurement practices are continually evolving as metering equipment improves. Therefore, 
use the latest measurement practices to support your savings (see also Chapter 8.11).  
The following sections define some key measurement issues to consider when using retrofit-
isolation techniques.   
Electricity Measurements 
To measure electricity accurately we measure the voltage, amperage and power factor, or true 
rms10 wattage with a single instrument. However measurement of amperage and voltage alone 
can adequately define wattage in purely resistive loads, such as incandescent lamps and 
resistance heaters without blower motors. When measuring power, make sure that a resistive 
load’s electrical wave-form is not distorted by other devices in the facility.  
Measure electric demand at the same time that the power company determines the peak 
demand for its billing. This measurement usually requires continuous recording of the demand 
at the sub-meter. From this record, the sub-meter’s demand can be read for the time when the 
power company reports that the peak demand occurred on its meter. The power company may 
reveal the time of peak demand either on its invoices or by special report.  
Electric-demand measurement methods vary amongst utilities. The method of measuring 
electric demand on a sub-mter should replicate the method the power company uses for the 
relevant billing meter. For example, if the power company calculates peak demand using fixed 
                                                  
10 Rms (root mean squared) values can be reported by solid state digital instruments to properly account for the net 
power when wave distortions exist in alternating current circuits. 
