76        Appendix A Examples 
 
It was assumed that the impact on plant electrical demand would be minimal since it is likely 
that there will be no change in the maximum number of compressors that will function during 
plant operations.  
M&V Plan  A full M&V Plan is shown on EVO’s subscriber website (www.evo-world.org). It uses 
IPMVP Volume I, EVO 10000 – 1:2012, Option B, for ongoing measurement of savings to 
indicate changes in compressed-air leakage rates. IPMVP Equation 1b) was used to adjust 
baseline energy to reporting period conditions. The M&V Plan aimed to minimize extra 
measurement costs so a simple three-phase true-rms wattmeter was added to the electrical 
supply of the motor-control center feeding all equipment in the compressor room. This 
measurement boundary encompassed 6 compressors, 3 compressed-air driers, and all other 
minor auxiliary systems in the compressor room. Heat generated within the compressor room is 
not an interactive effect since it does not affect any other energy uses. Plant staff were 
instructed to read the meter at the end of each shift (i.e. three times a day) whether the plant 
was operating or not. The meter was installed three months before leak-management activities 
began.  
The static factors related to plant design and operations were listed, as a reference for any 
future possible non-routine adjustments.  They included the number, capacity and usage 
patterns of all compressed-air-driven equipment, plant production-line speed, and vehicle 
models being produced. 
The baseline period electricity use, for operating and non-operating shifts, were quite different. 
Also within either kind of shift there were slight variations in energy use. No specific 
independent variable could be identified to account for the variations. It was decided to use the 
mean energy use of each kind of shift in the baseline period for determining the savings. A 
criterion was established for determining when sufficient readings had been made of baseline 
energy per shift to meet the Retail Chain A 95/5 uncertainty Retail Chain A for any savings report. 
Results  A full set of savings results are shown on the EVO subscriber website. It was found 
that to meet the 95/5 uncertainty criterion, the variation in shift energy during the baseline 
required readings for a seven-week period before retrofit. The baseline values were therefore 
established as the seven-week average electricity use of operating and non-operating shifts. 
It was noted that after the leakage repair activity was completed there was much less variation 
in the reporting-period energy use per shift.  Therefore the uncertainty Retail Chain A could be met by 
monthly savings reports.  
Energy savings were computed as the difference between actual energy use every month and 
the adjusted-baseline energy determined by multiplying the number of actual shifts in the month 
by the baseline mean energy use for each type of shift.  
The appropriate price of electricity was applied to the consumption savings, assuming that the 
utility’s “peak period” rates only applied to three hours within the second shift.  No demand 
savings were calculated.   
These measurements continued as part of normal plant operations. The plant-engineering 
department adjusted the baseline energy periodically as static factors changed. Operating staff 
provided shift energy readings and the engineering department reported savings every month. 
Variations from past savings patterns became a focus for assessing the maintenance practices 
related to the compressed-air system. 
A-5  Turbine/Generator Set Improvement – Option B 
Situation  A pulp mill used a steam turbine to generate much of its own electricity. Recent 
process changes had reduced the available steam for the turbine-generator (TG) unit from its 
original design level. As a result electricity output and thermal efficiency of the TG unit was 
reduced. The mill installed a new more efficient rotor designed for the new smaller steam flow. A 
