 
Definitions         57 
 
Measurement Boundary:  A notional boundary drawn around equipment and/or systems to 
segregate those which are relevant to savings determination from those which are not. All 
energy uses of equipment or systems within the measurement boundary must be measured or 
estimated, whether the energy uses are within the boundary or not. See Chapter 4.4. 
Metering: Collection of energy data over time at a facility through the use of measurement 
devices. 
M&V Plan:  The document defined in Chapter 5. 
Non-Routine Adjustments:  The individually engineered calculations in Equation 1a) of 
Chapter 4 to account for changes in static factors within the measurement boundary since the 
baseline period. When non-routine adjustments are applied to the baseline energy they are 
sometimes called just “baseline adjustments.” (See also Chapter 8.2.) 
Normalized Savings:  The reduction in energy use or cost that occurred in the reporting period, 
relative to what would have occurred if the facility had been equipped and operated as it was in 
the baseline period but under a normal set of conditions. These normal conditions may be a 
long term average, or those of any other chosen period of time, other than the reporting period. 
Normal conditions may also be set as those prevailing during the baseline period, especially if 
they were used as the basis for predicting savings. (See Chapter 4.6.2) If conditions are those 
of the reporting period, the term avoided energy use (see Chapter 4.6.1), or just savings, is 
used instead of normalized savings. 
Operational Verification: Verification that the ECMs are installed and operating properly and 
have the potential to generate savings. Operational verification may involve inspections, 
functional performance testing, and/or data trending with analysis. 
Precision:  The amount by which a measured value is expected to deviate from the true value.  
Precision is expressed as a “±” tolerance. Any precision statement about a measured value 
should include a confidence statement. For example a meter’s precision may be rated by the 
meter manufacturer as ±10% with a 95% confidence level. See Appendices B-1.1 and B-1.2 for 
definitions of Absolute Precision and Relative Precision. 
Probable Error:  See Appendix B-5. 
Proxy:  A measured parameter substituted in place of direct measurement of an energy 
parameter, where a relationship between the two has been proven on site. For example, if a 
relationship has been proven between the output signal from a variable speed drive controller 
and the power requirements of the controlled fan, this output signal is a proxy for fan power. 
R Squared (R2):   See Appendix B-2.2.1. 
Regression Analysis:  A mathematical technique that extracts parameters from a set of data to 
describe the correlation of measured independent variables and dependent variables (usually 
energy data). See Appendix B-2. 
Reporting Period:  The period of time following implementation of an ECM when savings 
reports adhere to IPMVP. This period may be as short as the time for an instantaneous 
measurement of a constant quantity; long enough to reflect all normal operating modes of a 
system or facility with variable operations; the length of the financial payback period for an 
investment; the duration of a performance measurement period under an energy performance 
contract; or indefinite. 
Routine Adjustments:  The calculations in Equation 1a) of Chapter 4 made by a formula 
shown in the M&V Plan to account for changes in selected independent variables within the 
measurement boundary since the baseline period. 
Savings:  The reduction in energy use or cost. Physical savings may be expressed as avoided 
energy use or normalized savings (see Chapter 4.6.1 and 4.6.2, respectively). Monetary savings 
may be expressed analogously as “cost avoidance” or “normalized cost savings” (see Chapter 
