6        Principles of M&V 
 
CHAPTER 3   PRINCIPLES OF M&V 
 
The fundamental principles of good M&V5 practice are described below, in alphabetical order. 
Accurate  M&V reports should be as accurate as the M&V budget will allow. M&V costs should 
normally be small relative to the monetary value of the savings being evaluated. M&V 
expenditures should also be consistent with the financial implications of over- or under-reporting 
of a project’s performance. Accuracy tradeoffs should be accompanied by increased 
conservativeness in any estimates and judgements.  
Complete  The reporting of energy savings should consider all effects of a project. M&V 
activities should use measurements to quantify the significant effects, while estimating all 
others.  
Conservative  Where judgements are made about uncertain quantities, M&V procedures 
should be designed to under-estimate savings.  
Consistent  The reporting of a project’s energy effectiveness should be consistent between: 
 
different types of energy efficiency projects; 
 
different energy management professionals for any one project; 
 
different periods of time for the same project; and 
 
energy efficiency projects and new energy supply projects. 
‘Consistent’ does not mean ‘identical,’ since it is recognized that any empirically derived report 
involves judgements which may not be made identically by all reporters. By identifying key 
areas of judgement, IPMVP helps to avoid inconsistencies arising from lack of consideration of 
important dimensions. 
Relevant The determination of savings should measure the performance parameters of 
concern, or least well known, while other less critical or predictable parameters may be 
estimated.  
Transparent  All M&V activities should be clearly and fully disclosed. Full disclosure should 
include presentation of all of the elements defined in Chapters 5 and 6 for the contents of an 
M&V Plan and a savings report, respectively. 
The balance of this document presents a flexible framework of basic procedures and four 
Options for achieving M&V processes which follow these fundamental principles. Where the 
framework is silent or inconsistent for any specific application, these M&V principles should be 
used for guidance. 
 
                                                  
5 Words in italics have the special meanings defined in Chapter 9. 
