 
IPMVP Framework and Options       21 
 
What to Measure? 
Consider the example of a lighting project 
where reporting period power draw is 
measured, but baseline power is not 
measured. Therefore power draw should 
be treated as an estimate in designing an 
Option A procedure. 
As a result, operating hours must be 
measured if the procedure is to adhere to 
IPMVP Option A.
4.7.1  Option A: Retrofit Isolation: Key Parameter Measurement  
Under Option A, Retrofit Isolation: Key Parameter Measurement, energy quantities in Equation 
1) can be derived from a computation using a combination of measurements of some 
parameters and estimates of the others. Such estimates should only be used where it can be 
shown that the combined uncertainty from all such estimates will not significantly affect the 
overall reported savings. Decide which parameters to measure and which to estimate by 
considering each parameter’s contribution to the overall uncertainty of the reported savings. The 
estimated values and analysis of their significance should be included in the M&V Plan (Chapter 
5). Estimates may be based on historical data such as recorded operating hours from the 
baseline, equipment manufacturer’s published ratings, laboratory tests, or typical weather data.   
If a parameter, such as hours of use is known to be constant and not expected to be impacted 
by the ECM, then its measurement in the reporting period is sufficient. The reporting period 
measurement of such constant parameter can also be considered a measurement of its 
baseline value.  
Wherever a parameter, known to vary independently, is not measured in the facility during both 
the baseline and reporting periods, the parameter should be treated as an estimate.  
Engineering calculations or mathematical modeling may be used to assess the significance of 
the errors in estimating any parameter in the reported savings. For example if a piece of 
equipment’s operating hours are to be estimated, but may range from 2,100 to 2,300 hours per 
year, the calculated savings at 2,100 and 2,300 hours should be computed and the difference 
evaluated for its significance to the expected savings. The combined effect of all such possible 
estimations should be assessed before determining whether sufficient measurement is in place. 
See also Appendix B-5.1.  
The selection of which factor(s) to measure may also be considered relative to the objectives of 
the project or the duties of a contractor undertaking some ECM-performance risk. Where a 
factor is significant to assessing performance, it should be measured. Other factors beyond the 
contractor’s control can be estimated.  
If a savings computation involves subtracting a measured parameter from an estimated 
parameter, the result is an estimate. For 
example if a parameter is measured in the 
reporting period and subtracted from an 
unmeasured value for the same parameter in 
the baseline period, the resultant difference is 
only an estimate.  
An example application of Option A is an 
ECM involving the installation of high-
efficiency light fixtures, without changing 
lighting periods. Savings can be determined 
using Option A by metering the lighting-circuit 
power draw before and after retrofit while 
estimating the operating period. Other 
variations on this type of ECM, shown in 
Table 2 below, show the circumstances where estimates adhere to the guidance of Option A. 
 
