26        IPMVP Framework and Options 
 
Meters serving non-interacting energy flows, for which savings are not to be determined, can be 
ignored. Separately metered outdoor-lighting circuits is one example.   
Determine savings separately for each meter or sub-meter serving a facility so that performance 
changes can be assessed for separately metered parts of the facility. However, where a meter 
measures only a small fraction of one energy type’s total use, it may be totaled with the larger 
meter(s) to reduce data-management tasks. When electrical meters are combined this way, it 
should be recognized that small consumption meters often do not have demand data associated 
with them so that the totalized consumption data will no longer provide meaningful load factor 
information.  
If several different meters are read on separate days, then each meter having a unique billing 
period should be separately analyzed. The resultant savings can be combined after analysis of 
each individual meter, if the dates are reported. 
If any of the energy data are missing from the reporting period, a reporting-period mathematical 
model can be created to fill in missing data. However the reported savings for the missing 
period should identify these savings as "missing data."  
4.8.2 Option C: Energy Invoices Issues  
Energy data for Option C are often derived from utility meters, either through direct reading of 
the meter, or from utility invoices. Where utility bills are the source of data, it should be 
recognized that a utility’s need for regular meter reading is not usually as great as the needs of 
M&V. Utility bills sometimes contain estimated data, especially for small accounts. Sometimes it 
cannot be determined from the bill itself whether the data came from an estimate or an actual 
meter reading. Unreported estimated meter readings create unknown errors for estimated 
month(s) and and also for the subsequent month of the actual meter reading. However the first 
invoice with an actual reading after one or more estimates will correct the previous errors in 
energy quantities. Savings reports should note when estimates are part of the utility data.  
When an electrical utility estimates a meter reading, no valid data exist for the electrical demand 
of that period.  
Energy may be supplied indirectly to a facility, through on-site storage facilities, such as for oil, 
propane or coal. In these situations, the energy supplier’s shipment invoices do not represent 
the facility’s actual consumption during the period between shipments. Ideally a meter 
downstream of the storage facility measures energy use. However where there is no 
downstream meter, inventory-level adjustments for each invoice period should supplement the 
invoices.  
4.8.3 Option C: Independent Variables  
Regularly changing parameters affecting a facility’s energy use, are called independent 
variables (see also box in Chapter 4.6.1). Common independent variables are weather, 
production volume and occupancy. Weather has many dimensions, but for whole-facility 
analysis, weather is often just outdoor dry-bulb temperature. Production has many dimensions, 
depending upon the nature of the industrial process. Production is typically expressed in mass 
units or volumetric units of each product. Occupancy is defined in many ways, such as hotel-
room occupancy, office-building occupancy hours, occupied days (weekdays/weekends), or 
restaurant-meal sales.  
Mathematical modeling can assess independent variables if they are cyclical. Regression 
analysis and other forms of mathematical modeling can determine the number of independent 
variables to consider in the baseline data (See Appendix B-2). Parameters, which have a 
