 
Introduction to IPMVP       1 
 
CHAPTER 1  INTRODUCTION TO IPMVP 
1.1   Purpose And Scope Of IPMVP 
Efficiency Valuation Organization (EVO) publishes the International Performance Measurement 
and Verification Protocol (IPMVP) to increase investment in energy and water efficiency, 
demand management and renewable energy projects around the world.  
The IPMVP promotes efficiency investments by the following activities.  
 
IPMVP documents common terms and methods to evaluate performance of efficiency 
projects for buyers, sellers and financiers. Some of these terms and methods may be used 
in project agreements, though IPMVP does not offer contractual language. 
 
IPMVP provides methods, with different levels of cost and accuracy, for determining 
savings1 either for the whole facility or for individual energy conservation measures (ECM)2; 
 
IPMVP specifies the contents of a Measurement and Verification Plan (M&V Plan). This 
M&V Plan adheres to widely accepted fundamental principles of M&V and should produce 
verifiable savings reports. An M&V Plan must be developed for each project by a qualified 
professional3. 
 
IPMVP applies to a wide variety of facilities including existing and new buildings and 
industrial processes. Chapter 1.4, User’s Guide, summarizes how different readers might 
use IPMVP. 
IPMVP Volume I defines M&V in Chapter 2, presents the fundamental principles of M&V in 
Chapter 3, and describes a framework for a detailed M&V Plan in Chapter 4. The details of an 
M&V Plan and savings report are listed in Chapters 5 and 6, respectively. The requirements for 
specifying use of IPMVP or claiming adherence with IPMVP are shown in Chapter 7. Volume I 
also contains a summary of common M&V design issues, Chapter 8, and lists other M&V 
resources. Twelve example projects are described in Appendix A and basic uncertainty analysis 
methods are summarized in Appendix B. Region-specific materials are in Appendix C. Specific 
guidance for different types of users is in Appendix D. 
IPMVP Volume II provides a comprehensive approach to evaluating building indoor-
environmental-quality issues that are related to ECM design, implementation and maintenance.  
Volume II suggests measurements of indoor conditions to identify changes from conditions of 
the baseline period. 
IPMVP Volume III provides greater detail on M&V methods associated with new buiding 
construction, and with renewable energy systems added to existing facilities. 
IPMVP Volumes I and III are a living suite of documents, with the latest modifications available 
on EVO’s website (www.evo-world.org). Volume II is now found in the archives of the EVO 
website. 
1.2   Benefits Of Using IPMVP  
IPMVP’s history since 1995 and its international use brings the following benefits to programs 
that adhere to IPMVP’s guidance. 
                                                  
1 Words in italics have the special meanings defined in Chapter 8. 
2  Although there is some debate over the differences between two terms — energy conservation measure (ECM) 
and energy efficiency measure (EEM) — the common ECM term is defined to include both conservation and 
efficiency actions. See Chapter 8. 
3 www.evo-world.org contains the current list of Certified M&V Professionals (CMVP®s), persons with appropriate 
experience and who have demonstrated their knowledge of IPMVP by passing an examination. 
