48        Other Common M&V Issues 
 
 
Reductions in purchases from the electrical grid should be divided into those due to load 
reduction and those due to increased self-generation at the facility. 
 
The adjusted baseline used for computing energy savings may need to change to suit the 
requirements of the particular emission-trading program. For emission-trading purposes, 
adjusted baselines need to consider whether the ECMs were 'surplus' or 'additional' to 
normal behavior. ECMs may not be allowed for emisison trading if they are 'business as 
usual' or  simply compliance with existing regulations. Baseline rules are defined by the 
relevant emission-trading program. For example, where equipment minimum–efficiency 
standards govern the equipment market, these standards set the baseline for determining 
tradable amounts.  
 
Segregate energy savings by site, if a project spans a power pool's boundary line, or if 
emission quantities may be outside an air shed of concern. 
 
Segregate fuel savings by fuel or boiler type, if different emission rates apply to each 
combustion device. 
Each emission-trading system usually has its own rules surrounding emission factors to be 
applied to energy savings. For fuel savings, default emission rates may be given when no 
emission-measuring equipment is in place. For electricity savings, default values may also be 
given for the power grid emission rate. Alternatively users may establish their own emisison rate 
for electricity savings, following recognized principles such as those published as part of the 
Guidelines for Grid-Connected Electricity Projects (WRI 2007).  
8.8  Minimum Operating Conditions 
An energy-efficiency program should not affect the use of the facility to which it is applied, 
without the agreement of building occupants or industrial process managers. Key user 
paramaters may be: light level, temperature, ventilation rate, compresssed air pressure, steam 
pressure and temperature, water flow rate, production rate, etc.  
The M&V Plan should record the agreed minimum operating conditions that will be maintained 
(see Chapter 5).  
IPMVP Volume II, Concepts and Practices for Improved Indoor Environmental Quality, suggests 
methods of monitoring indoor space conditions throughout an energy-efficiency program.  
8.9  Weather Data 
Where monthly energy measurements are used, weather data should be recorded daily so it 
can be matched to the actual energy-metering reading dates.  
For monthly or daily analysis, government published weather data is usually the most accurate 
and verifiable. However weather data from government sources may not be available as 
promptly as site-monitored weather data. If you use on-site weather-monitoring equipment, be 
sure it is regularly and properly calibrated. 
When analyzing the response of energy use to weather in mathematical modeling, daily mean 
temperature data or degree days may be used. 
8.10  Minimum Energy Standards  
When a certain level of efficiency is required either by law or the facility owner's standard 
practice, savings may be based on the difference between reporting-period energy and that 
minimum standard. In these situations, baseline-period energy may be set equal to or less than 
the applicable minimum energy standards.  
