 
IPMVP Framework and Options       9 
 
6. After the ECM is installed, ensure it has the potential to perform and achieve savings by 
conducting operational verification. This may include inspecting the installed equipment and 
revising operating procedures as needed to conform to the design intent of the ECM. This 
requirement may be fulfilled by a formal "commissioning" process as part of the project .  
 
7. Gather energy and operating data from the reporting period, as defined in the M&V Plan. 
8. Compute savings in energy and monetary units in accordance with the M&V Plan.  
9. Report savings in accordance with the M&V Plan (see Chapter 6).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Steps 7 through 9 are repeated periodically when a savings report is needed.  
A third party may verify that the M&V Plan adheres to IPMVP, and possibly a performance 
contract. This third party may also verify that savings reports comply with the approved M&V 
Plan (see Chapter 8.6).  
 
4.4 Operational Verification 
Operational Verification should be performed as part of any project M&V program. It serves as a 
low-cost initial step for realizing savings potential and should precede savings verification 
activities.  A range of operational verification methods can be applied, as outlined in Table 2. 
Selection of a given approach depends on the ECM’s characteristics as noted. However, it can 
also be influenced by the savings verification approach taken. For example, if Option B is being 
used to verify savings then a more simple visual inspection may suffice for operational 
verification. However if Option A is applied, then a more thorough operational verification 
approach should be used to verify that the ECM functionality is confirmed and characterization 
complete.  
Operational verification activities are accomplished through comprehensive commissioning of 
affected systems supplemented by more data-driven activities (e.g. data trending and review). 
The M&V Plan should note the operational verification approach in addition to the savings 
verification method. Operational verification should be completed prior to implementing M&V 
savings verification activities. This ensures the savings from ECMs, energy-efficient controls 
and operation improvements are fully realized.  
Interactive Effects - Example
 
For an ECM, which reduces the power requirements of electric lights, the 
measurement boundary should include the power to the lights. However lowering 
lighting energy may also lower any mechanical cooling requirements and/or raise 
any heating requirements. Such heating and cooling energy flows attributable to the 
lights cannot usually be easily measured. They are interactive effects which may 
have to be estimated, rather than included within the measurement boundary.
