 
Appendix A Examples         79 
 
representing a range of boiler loads, from low to high, it was agreed that the test results will 
adequately represent the annual improvement that the owner could expect.  
Oil and thermal energy meter readings will be made daily by building maintenance staff through 
winter months until three valid weeks of testing have been obtained for the old boiler. The same 
process will be followed for the new boiler. The readings will be logged in the boiler room and 
open for inspection at any time. The building-automation system measures and records ambient 
temperature for the valid weeks. 
A contract extra of €5,100 was accepted by the owner for the supply, installation and 
commissioning of the oil and thermal-energy meters and for computing and reporting the 
savings. Consideration was given to requiring demonstration of performance for a whole year. 
However the contractor pointed out that the extra costs of meter calibration and data analysis 
would add €3,000 to the fee. The owner decided that a short test period of 3 representative 
weeks would be adequate. The owner also decided to maintain and calibrate the oil and thermal 
energy meters himself after the contract, and to annually make his own boiler-efficiency 
calculations. 
Results  Baseline oil and thermal energy data was collected continuously over a five-week 
period, until three were found where daily mean ambient temperatures stayed within the 
specified range -5oC to +5oC. Dividing net thermal energy delivered by oil consumed, the 
average efficiency readings for the old boiler during the three one-week periods were found to 
be 65.2%.  
After installation and commissioning of the boiler, the three-week reporting period was again 
found with an average ambient temperature between -5oC to +5oC. Boiler efficiency test results 
averaged 80.6%.  
There were no other changes to the boiler plant between the time of the baseline-period tests 
and reporting-period tests. Therefore non-routine adjustments were not needed. 
Using IPMVP Equation 1d), annual savings using 239,200 liters as the estimated annual oil use 
from the baseline period are: 
 
 
Oil savings  
= 239,200 liters x ( 1.000 – 0.652 / 0.806 ) 
 
 
 
 
= 45,700 liters 
The value of the savings is €0.70 x 45,700 = €31,900.28 
These estimated annual savings from a short-term test validated that the contractor had met its 
guaranteed performance. 
A-7  Multiple ECM With Metered Baseline Data – Option C 
Situation  An energy efficiency project was implemented in a high school in northern United 
States. It involved ten ECMs spanning lighting, HVAC, pool heating, operator training and 
occupant-awareness campaigns. The objectives of the project were to reduce energy costs. 
Factors Affecting M&V Design  The owner wished to record annual cost avoidance relative to 
the conditions and energy usage rate of 2005 as the baseline. The school contained a pool and 
cafeteria.  The school is in use year round, though it closes for a total of 5 weeks a year 
between sessions. The community uses the building most evenings. 
The building’s energy requirement is significantly affected by ambient temperature. Temperature 
data can be easily obtained from a nearby government weather office. No other significant 
energy-governing variable could be quantified. 
                                                  
28 The annual oil and money savings are expressed conservatively with three significant digits, the lowest number of 
digits used in the computations as found in the efficiency tests.   
