 
Appendix D Users of IPMVP         121 
 
Utilities already have the whole facility data for their commodity in their databases, so may apply 
Option C (Chapter 4.9) on all program participants or a sample of them. However without 
adequate knowledge of changes within each facility, a large percentage of variation in the 
savings should be expected, especially as time elapses between the baseline and reporting 
periods.  
EVO is monitoring the needs of the utility program evaluation community. EVO is considering 
development of special M&V guidance for DSM program evaluation, and for establishing 
baselines for measuring the ‘demand response’ of customers receiving utility price or 
curtailment signals (see Preface – EVO’s Future Plans).  
D-9   Water-Efficiency Project Developers  
Water-efficiency M&V is analogous to energy-efficiency M&V, so uses similar M&V techniques. 
The relevant technique for any project depends upon the nature of the change being evaluated, 
and upon the user’s situation as discussed in Chapters 1.4.1 through 1.4.5 and 1.4.8.  
Water-consuming equipment is often in the control of facility users (building occupants or 
production managers). Therefore it can be difficult to monitor user behavior as needed to make 
adjustments to total-facility water use for the application of Option C methods. Retrofit Isolation 
methods are often more easily applied (Chapter 4.8), using a sample of the retrofits (Appendix 
B-3) to demonstrate the performance of an entire group of changes. 
Where outdoor water use is being evaluated, the adjustments term in IPMVP Equation 1 
(Chapter 4) may be related to parameters that drive water use such as rainfall. 
Liquid flow measurements devices (see Chapter 8.11, Table 5) are most commonly applied in 
M&V for water efficiency projects.  
D-10   Emission Trading Programs 
Energy-efficiency programs can be central to helping large energy users meet their regulated 
emission allocation. All of the techniques of this document help energy users manage their 
energy use, through proper accounting (Chapters 1.4.3 and 1.4.4).  
Energy-efficiency projects may also be the basis of trades in emission-reduction commodities 
(credits, offsets, set asides, etc). Since such trades must hold up under public scrutiny, 
compliance with an industry recognized protocol adds credibility to emission reduction claims.  
Trading-program designers should specify compliance with IPMVP, 2002 edition or later. They 
may go further and require fully measured energy-savings approaches (i.e. Options B or C, 
Chapters 4.8.2 or 4.9). This further specification reduces the uncertainty in the quantification by 
eliminating Options using estimated or simulated values rather than measured values. 
Chapter 8.7 discusses the special M&V design issues for emission trades. 
D-11  Energy Users Seeking ISO 50001 Certification 
The management methods required under ISO 50001 focus on managing total facility utility 
costs. IPMVP’s Options C and D (Chapters 4.9 and 4.10) describe methods useful for this 
purpose, even if no savings are being sought. However IPMVP cautions on the challenges of 
detecting small changes in whole facility utility energy use data. IPMVP offers both general 
guidance (Chapter 4.9) and specific guidance (Appendix B-1.2) on how large total facility energy 
use changes must be to be reportable with any statistical validity. If expected savings are not 
large enough, it would be appropriate to also use sub-meters for different sections of the facility. 
Also IPMVP’s Retrofit Isolation Options A and/or B (Chapter 4.8) would also be appropriate 
management tools for specific energy efficiency projects. However Chapter 4.8 cautions that 
Retrofit Isolation results cannot be correlated with whole facility utility bills.
