46        Other Common M&V Issues 
 
quantity of savings at stake therefore places a limit on the M&V budget, which in turn 
determines how much uncertainty is acceptable. 
For example, consider a project with an expected savings of $100,000 per year and $5,000/year 
cost for a basic M&V approach with a precision no better than ±$25,000 per year with 90% 
confidence. To improve the precision to ±$7,000 it may be seen as reasonable to increase M&V 
expenditures up to $10,000/year (10% of the savings), but not $20,000/year (20%).  
The acceptable level of uncertainty in a savings-reporting process is often a personal matter, 
which depends on the report reader’s desire for rigor. However reducing uncertainty requires 
more or better operational data. Enhanced operational data enables fine tuning of savings and 
enhancement of other operational variables. More operational information may also help to size 
equipment for plant expansions or for the replacement of old equipment.  
Enhanced feedback created by M&V may also allow higher payments to be made under an 
energy performance contract based on measured data rather than deemed values of savings, 
which must be conservative.  
Additional investments for lower uncertainty should not exceed the expected increase in value. 
This issue is discussed in more detail by Goldberg (1996b). 
Of course, not all uncertainties can be quantified (see Chapter 8.3). Therefore both quantitative 
and qualitative uncertainty statements should be considered when considering M&V cost 
options for each project. 
For each project, site and facility owner, there is an optimal M&V Plan. That optimal M&V Plan 
should include iterative consideration of the sensitivity of the savings uncertainty and M&V cost 
to each M&V design parameter. Appendix B presents methods of quantifying uncertainty. 
Appendices B-5.1 and B-5.2 present methods of combining several components of uncertainty 
and setting uncertainty criteria or objectives.   
Not all ECMs should expect to achieve the same level of M&V uncertainty since uncertainty is 
proportional to the complexity of the ECM and the variations in operations during both the 
baseline period and reporting period. For example, Option A methods may allow the savings 
from a simple industrial-plant lighting retrofit to be determined with less uncertainty than the 
savings from a chiller retrofit, since estimated lighting parameters may have less uncertainty 
than estimated chiller-plant parameters.  
In determining the measurement level and associated costs, the M&V Plan should consider the 
amount of variation in the energy use within the measurement boundary. For example, indoor 
lighting may use electricity fairly consistently all year, making it relatively easy to determine 
savings, while heating and cooling loads change seasonally making savings identification more 
difficult. Consider the following general guidelines for balancing cost and uncertainty in an M&V 
process.18 
1. Low Energy Variation & Low-Value ECM.  Low-value ECMs cannot typically afford much 
M&V, based on the 10%-of-savings guideline, especially if there is little variation in the 
measured energy data.  Such combined situations would tend to favour use of Option A, 
and short reporting periods, for example, in the case of a constant-speed exhaust-fan motor 
that operates under a constant load according to a well-defined schedule.  
2. High Energy Variation & Low-Value ECM.  Low-value ECMs cannot generally afford much 
M&V, as in 1, above. However with a high amount of variation in the energy data, the all-
parameter measurement techniques of Option B may be needed to achieve the required 
uncertainty. Sampling techniques may be able to reduce Option B costs. Option C may not 
be suitable based on the general guidance in Chapter 4.9 that savings should exceed 10% 
of a facility’s metered use in order to be measurable.   
                                                  
18 Also see FEMP (2002).  
