42        Other Common M&V Issues 
 
8.1.2 Marginal Price 
An alternative procedure for valuing savings involves multiplying energy units saved by the 
marginal price of energy. Be careful to ensure that the marginal price is valid for the level of 
consumption and demand of both the baseline and reporting periods.  
Average, or blended prices, determined by dividing billed cost by billed consumption, are often 
different from marginal prices. In this situation average prices create inaccurate statements of 
cost savings and should not be used. 
8.1.3 Fuel Switching and Price Schedule Changes 
The Chapter 8.1 general strategy of applying the same price schedule to baseline and reporting 
period energy introduces some special considerations when the ECM creates a change in fuel 
type or a change in price schedule between the baseline and reporting periods. Such situations 
arise, for example, when an ECM includes a change to a lower cost fuel, or shifts the energy 
use pattern such that the facility qualifies for a different price schedule.  
In such situations, use the price schedule of the baseline commodity to determine Cb in 
Equation 2). The price schedule of the reporting-period commodity should be used in 
determining Cr. However, both commodity-price schedules would be for the same time period, 
usually the reporting period.  
For example, the heating source is changed from electricity to gas, and you intend to use 
reporting period prices. Then Cb would use the reporting period’s electricity-price schedule for all 
electricity. Cr would use the reporting period’s gas-price schedule, for the new gas load, and the 
reporting period’s electricity-price schedule for any remaining electricity use.  
However, this treatment of an intentional change of price schedule does not apply if the change 
was not part of the ECM(s) being assessed. For example, if the utility changed its price 
structures for no reason related to the ECM(s) being assessed, the Chapter 8.1 general 
principle of using the same price schedule for Cb and Cr still applies. 
8.2  Baseline Adjustments (Non-Routine) 
Conditions, which vary in a predictable fashion and are significant to energy use within the 
measurement boundary, are normally included within the mathematical model used for routine 
adjustments, described in Chapter 4.6.  Where unexpected or one-time changes occur in 
conditions within the measurement boundary, which are otherwise static (static factors), non-
routine adjustments, also called baseline adjustments, must be made (see also Chapter 4.6).   
Non-routine adjustments are needed where a change occurs to equipment or operations within 
the measurement boundary after the baseline period. Such change occurs to a static factor not 
to independent variables. For example, an ECM improved the efficeincy of a large number of 
light fixtures. When more light fixtures were installed, after ECM installation, a non-routine 
adjustment was made. The estimated energy of the extra fixtures was added to the baseline 
energy so that the ECM’s true savings were still reported. 
Values estimated for use in IPMVP Option A are usually chosen to eliminate the need for 
adjustments when changes happen within the measurement boundary (see Chapter 4.8.1). 
Therefore non-routine adjustments can be avoided using Option A. For example, a chiller plant’s 
cooling load was estimated rather than measured in order to determine Option A savings 
created by a chiller efficiency ECM. After retrofit, a facility addition increased the actual cooling 
load within the measurement boundary. However since Option A was chosen using a fixed 
cooling load, reported savings are unchanged. The use of Option A avoided the need for a non-
routine adjustment. 
Baseline conditions need to be fully documented in the M&V Plan so that changes in static 
factors can be identified and proper non-routine adjustments made.  It is important to have a 
