 
Other Common M&V Issues       47 
 
3. Low Energy Variation & High-Value ECM.  With low variation in energy use, the level of 
uncertainty is often low, so Option A techniques may be most suitable. However, since you 
expect high savings, small improvements in precision may have monetary rewards large 
enough to merit more precise metering and data analysis, if you can keep M&V costs 
appropriate relative to the savings. For example, if the savings from an ECM are $1,000,000 
annually, you may decide to increase the $5,000 annual M&V cost to $20,000, if it increases 
precision and provides more operational data. Alternatively, a high-value ECM may be 
clearly measurable with Option C. Option C can keep M&V costs low, if simple means are 
used to monitor static factors to detect the need for non-routine adjustments. 
4. High Energy Variation & High-Value ECM.  This situation allows appropriate uncertainty 
reduction through extensive data collection and analysis using Options A, B or D.  However 
savings are also likely to show in the utility records, so that Option C techniques may be 
used with careful monitoring of static factors to detect the need for non-routine adjustments.  
The reporting period may have to span multiple normal cycles of facility operation.   
8.6  Verification by an Independent Verifier  
Where a contractor is hired by a facility owner to make and report energy savings, the owner 
may need an independent verifier to review the savings reports. This independent verifier 
should begin by reviewing the M&V Plan during its preparation, to ensure that the savings 
reports will satisfy the owner's expectations for uncertainty.  
The independent review could also examine non-routine adjustments. However full review of 
non-routine adjustments requires good understanding of the facility, its operations and energy 
engineering calculation techniques. The facility owner should provide summaries of changes in 
static factors so that the verifier can focus on the engineerign calculations in the non-routine 
adjustments. 
An energy performance contract requires that both parties believe that the performance 
payments are based on valid information. An independent verifier may be helpful to ensure 
measurement validity and to prevent conflicts. If conflicts arise during the reporting period, this 
independent verifier can help to resolve the conflicts. 
Independent verifiers are typically engineering consultants with experience and knowledge in 
ECMs, M&V and energy performance contracting. Many are members of industry professional 
societies, or are Certified Measurement and Verification Professionals (CMVP®s).19 
8.7  Data for Emission Trading 
Adherence to IPMVP can provide increased confidence in energy-savings reports, which also 
increases confidence in associated reports of emission-reduction commodities.  
Combined with the specific M&V Plan of each project, IPMVP enhances consistency of 
reporting and enables validation and verification of energy-saving projects. However to verify an 
emission-reduction commodity, IPMVP and the project's M&V Plan must be used in conjunction 
with the emission-trading program's specific guidance on converting energy savings into 
equivalent emissions reductions. 
Emission trading will be facilitated if the following energy-reporting methods are considered 
when designing the process for determining the units of energy saved. 
 
Electrical savings should be split into peak period and off peak periods, and ozone season 
and non-ozone season when NOx or VOC trading is involved. These periods are defined by 
the relevant emission-trading program. 
                                                  
19 The CMVP® program is a joint activity of Efficiency Valuation Organization and the Association of 
Energy Engineers (AEE). It is accessible through EVO’s website www.evo-world.org.  
