 
IPMVP Framework and Options       25 
 
15 minute intervals, then the recording meter should be set to record data for the same 15 
minute intervals. However if the power company uses a moving interval to record electric 
demand data, the data recorder should have similar capabilities. Such moving interval capability 
can be emulated by recording data on one minute fixed intervals and then recreating the power 
company’s intervals using post-processing software. However, care should be taken to ensure 
that the facility does not contain unusual combinations of equipment that generate high one 
minute peak loads which may show up differently in a moving interval than in a fixed interval. 
After processing the data into power company intervals, convert it to hourly data for archiving 
and further analysis. 
Calibration 
Meters should  be calibrated as recommended by the equipment manufacturer, and following 
procedures of recognized measurement authorities. Primary standards and no less than third-
order-standard traceable calibration equipment should be utilized wherever possible. Sensors 
and metering equipment should be selected based in part on the ease of calibration and the 
ability to hold calibration. An attractive solution is the selection of equipment that is self-
calibrating. 
Selected calibration references  are provided in Chapter 10.3.  
4.8   Option C: Whole Facility  
Option C: Whole Facility, involves use of utility meters, whole-facility meters, or sub-meters to 
assess the energy performance of a total facility. The measurement boundary encompasses 
either the whole facility or a major section. This Option determines the collective savings of all 
ECMs applied to the part of the facility monitored by the energy meter. Also, since whole-facility 
meters are used, savings reported under Option C include the positive or negative effects of any 
non-ECM changes made in the facility.  
Option C is intended for projects where expected savings are large compared to the random or 
unexplained energy variations which occur at the whole-facility level. If savings are large 
compared to the unexplained variations in the baseline-energy data, then identifying savings will 
be easy. Also the longer the period of savings analysis after ECM installation, the less 
significant is the impact of short-term unexplained variations11. Typically savings should exceed 
10% of the baseline energy if you expect to confidently discriminate the savings from the 
baseline data when the reporting period is shorter than two years.  
Identifying facility changes that will require non-routine adjustments is the primary challenge 
associated with Option C, particularly when savings are monitored for long periods. (See also 
Chapter 8.2 on non-routine baseline adjustments.) Therefore, you should perform periodic 
inspections of all equipment and operations in the facility during the reporting period. These 
inspections identify changes in the static factors from baseline conditions. Such inspections may 
be part of regular monitoring to ensure that the intended operating methods are still being 
followed.   
4.8.1 Option C: Energy Data Issues  
Where utility supply is only measured at a central point in a group of facilities, sub-meters are 
needed at each facility or group of facilities for which individual performance is assessed.  
Several meters may be used to measure the flow of one energy type into a facility. If a meter 
supplies energy to a system that interacts with other energy systems, directly or indirectly, this 
meter’s data should be included in the whole-facility savings determination.  
                                                  
11 See Appendix B-5. ASHRAE (2002) provides quantitative methods for assessing the impact of variations in the 
baseline data as the reporting period lengthens. 
