2        Introduction to IPMVP 
 
 
Substantiation of payments for performance. Where financial payments are based on 
demonstrated energy or water savings, adherenece to IPMVP ensures that savings follow 
good practice. An IPMVP-adherent savings report allows a customer, an energy user or a 
utility, to readily accept reported performance. Energy service companies (ESCOs) whose 
invoices are supported by IPMVP-adherent savings reports, usually receive prompt 
payments. 
 
Lower transaction costs in an energy performance contract. Specification of IPMVP as the 
basis for designing a project’s M&V can simplify the negotiations for an energy performance 
contract. 
 
International credibility for energy savings reports, thereby increasing the value to a buyer of 
the associated energy savings. 
 
Enhanced rating under programs to encourage or label sustainably designed and/ or 
operated facilities. 
 
Help national and industry organizations promote and achieve resource efficiency and 
environmental objectives. The IPMVP is widely adopted by national and regional 
government agencies and by industry organizations to help manage their programs and 
enhance the credibility of their reported results. 
1.3   IPMVP’s Relationship To Other M&V Guidelines 
Chapter 9 lists other interesting resources for readers of IPMVP. Appendix C lists other 
guidelines, protocols, and documents from different regions of the world that are applications of 
IPMVP, or provide references to relevant codes, standards, and programs that reference 
IPMVP. 
1.4   Who Uses IPMVP? 
IPMVP presents common principles and terms that are widely accepted as basic to any good 
M&V process. It does not define the M&V activities for all applications. Each project must be 
individually designed to suit the needs of all readers of energy or water savings reports.  This 
individual design is recorded in the project’s M&V Plan and savings are reported as defined 
therein.  
This document is written to progressively provide greater levels of definition of M&V practice as 
it progresses through the Chapters as summarized below. 
 
Chapter 2 defines M&V and descibes eight different applications for M&V techniques. 
 
Chapter 3 present the six foundational principles of good M&V practice and the IPMVP. 
They are useful for guiding M&V design details where IPMVP is silent.  
 
Chapter 4 presents the general framework and savings computation equations needed to 
properly express savings. Table 2 summarizes four M&V design Options and Chapters 4.7 - 
4.9 describe each of them. Chapter 4.10 offers guidance and a logic diagram for selecting 
the right Option for any application. Appendix A provides example applications of IPMVP’s 
methods to 12 typical projects. 
 
Chapter 5 lists the topics and data which should be included in an M&V Plan and offers 
some suggestions on key issues which might be discussed under each topic. Readers can 
use this as a checklist for describing the M&V design for a particular project. 
 
Chapter 6 lists the topics and data that should be included in savings reports. 
 
Chapter 7 shows the requirements for claiming adherence with IPMVP and suggests terms 
for specifying the use of IPMVP in contracts. 
