 
M&V Plan Contents       37 
 
energy data to reflect the energy-management program’s expected improvement 
from baseline conditions.  
- Size, type, and insulation of any relevant building envelope elements such as walls, 
roofs, doors, windows. 
- Equipment inventory: nameplate data, location, condition. Photographs or 
videotapes are effective ways to record equipment condition.  
- Equipment operating practices (schedules and setpoints, actual temperatures and 
pressures) 
- Significant equipment problems or outages during the baseline period.   
The baseline documentation typically requires well-documented audits, surveys, inspections 
and/or short-term metering activities. The extent of this information is determined by the 
measurement boundary chosen or the scope of the savings determination. 
Where whole-facility M&V methods are employed (Chapter 4.9 or 4.10), all facility 
equipment and conditions should be documented.  
4. Reporting Period  Identify the reporting period. This period may be as short as an 
instantaneous measurement during commissioning of an ECM, or as long as the time 
required to recover the investment cost of the ECM program (See Chapter 4.5.2).  
5. Basis for Adjustment   Declare the set of conditions to which all energy measurements will 
be adjusted. The conditions may be those of the reporting period or some other set of fixed 
conditions. As discussed in Chapter 4.6, this choice determines whether savings are 
reported as avoided energy (4.6.1) or as normalized savings (4.6.2).  
6. Analysis Procedure   Specify the exact data analysis procedures, algorithms and 
assumptions to be used in each savings report. For each mathematical model used, report 
all of its terms and the range of independent variables over which it is valid.  
7. Energy Prices   Specify the energy prices that will be used to value the savings, and 
whether and how savings will be adjusted if prices change in future (See Chapter 8.1). 
8. Meter Specifications  Specify the metering points, and period(s) if metering is not 
continuous. For non-utility meters, specify: meter characteristics, meter reading and 
witnessing protocol, meter commissioning procedure, routine calibration process, and 
method of dealing with lost data (see Chapter 8.11.1).  
9. Monitoring Responsibilities   Assign responsibilities for reporting and recording the energy 
data, independent variables and static factors within the measurement boundary during the 
reporting period. 
10. Expected Accuracy   Evaluate the expected accuracy associated with the measurement, 
data capture, sampling and data analysis. This assessment should include qualitative and 
any feasible quantitative measures of the level of uncertainty in the measurements and 
adjustments to be used in the planned savings report (See Chapter 8.3 and Appendix B). 
11. Budget   Define the budget and the resources required for the savings determination, both 
initial setup costs and ongoing costs throughout the reporting period.  
12. Report Format   Specify how results will be reported and documented (see Chapter 6). A 
sample of each report should be included.  
13. Quality Assurance   Specify quality-assurance procedures that will be used for savings 
reports and any interim steps in preparing the reports.  
