 
Appendix C Region Specific Materials         107 
 
APPENDIX C   REGION-SPECIFIC MATERIALS 
This Appendix contains materials unique to the various regions of the world from which EVO 
has received credible contributions. These contributions may be updated separately from the 
rest of this Volume, so a date of publication is shown for each part. EVO encourages all regions 
of the world to submit materials that highlight unique aspects of M&V in their areas. 
C-1  United States of America - April 2007, updated October 2011 
Addition to Chapter 1.3 “IPMVP’s Relationship To Other M&V Guidelines” 
 
ASHRAE, Guideline 14-2002 Measurement of Energy and Demand Savings (see Reference 
3 in Chapter 10). This American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning 
Engineers, Inc. document  provides complementary detail for IPMVP. Guideline 14 had 
many of the same original authors as IPMVP. Though Guideline 14 provides technical detail 
following many of the same concepts of IPMVP, it does not use the same Option names as 
IPMVP. Guideline 14 is a unique and useful resource for M&V professionals around the 
world and is available for purchase through ASHRAE’s bookstore at 
http://resourcecenter.ashrae.org/store/ashrae/. 
 
M&V Guidelines: Measurement and Verification for Federal Energy Projects, Version 2.2 - 
2000 (see Reference 27 in Chapter 10). The U.S. Department of Energy's Federal Energy 
Management Program (FEMP) was established, in part, to reduce energy costs of operating 
U.S. government federal facilities. The FEMP M&V Guideline was first published in 1996 
with many of the same authors as IPMVP. It provides detailed guidance on specific M&V 
methods for a variety of ECMs. The FEMP Guide is generally consistent with the IPMVP 
framework, except that it does not require site measurment of energy use for two specific 
ECMs. The Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory website (http://ateam.lbl.gov/mv/) 
contains the FEMP M&V Guideline, and a number of other M&V resource documents, 
including one on the estimations used in Option A, and an M&V checklist. 
 
The U.S. State Of California’s Public Utilities Commission’s California Energy Efficiency 
Evaluation Protocols: Technical, Methodological, and Reporting Requirements for 
Evaluation Professionals (April 2006). This document provides guidance for evaluating 
efficiency programs implemented by a utility. It shows the role IPMVP for individual site 
M&V. The Protocol can be found at the California Measurement Advisory Council 
(CALMAC) website http://www.calmac.org. 
 
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol for Project Accounting (2005), jointly developed by the World 
Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. The 
IPMVP Technical Committee was represented on the advisory committee for this document 
which defines means of reporting the greenhouse gas impact of carbon emission reduction 
and carbon sequestration projects. See www.ghgprotocol.org. 
Addition to Chapters 1.2, Appendix D.6 and D.7 
A widely referenced program for rating the sustainability of building designs or operations is the 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEEDTM) of the U.S. Green Buildings Council. 
Addition to Chapter 4.3, Item 6. 
ORNL (1999) and ASHRAE Guideline 1-1996 define good practice in commissioning most 
building modifications. 
 
