 
IPMVP Framework and Options       27 
 
significant effect on the baseline energy use, should be included in the routine adjustments 
when determining savings12 using Equation 1a), b) or c). 
Independent variables should be measured and recorded at the same time as the energy data. 
For example, weather data should be recorded daily so they can be totaled to correspond with 
the exact monthly energy-metering period, which may be different from the calendar month. Use 
of simple monthly mean temperature data for a non-calendar month energy metering period 
introduces unnecessary error into the analysis.  
4.8.4 Option C: Calculations and Mathematical Models  
For Option C, the routine adjustments term of Equation 1a) is calculated by developing a valid 
mathematical model of each meter’s energy-use pattern. A model may be as simple as an 
ordered list of twelve measured monthly energy quantities without any adjustments. However a 
model often includes factors derived from regression analysis, which correlate energy to one or 
more independent variables such as outdoor temperature, degree days, metering period length, 
production, occupancy, and/or operating mode. Models can also include a different set of 
regression parameters for each range of conditions, such as summer or winter in buildings with 
seasonal energy-use variations. For example, in schools where the building’s energy use differs 
between the school year and the vacation period, you may need separate regression models for 
the different usage periods (Landman and Haberl 1996a; 1996b).  
Option C should use complete years (12, 24, or 36 months) of continuous data, during the 
baseline period, and continuous data during the reporting periods (Fels 1986). Models, which 
use other numbers of months, (9, 10, 13, or 18 months, for example) can create statistical bias 
by under or over-representing normal modes of operation.   
Meter data can be hourly, daily or monthly whole-facility data. Hourly data should be combined 
into daily data to limit the number of independent variables required to produce a reasonable 
baseline model, without significantly increasing the uncertainty in computed savings 
(Katipamula 1996, Kissock et al. 1992). Variation in the daily data often results from the weekly 
cycle of most facilities.  
Many mathematical models are appropriate for Option C. To select the one most suited to the 
application, consider statistical-evaluation indices, such as R2 and t (see Appendix B-2.2)13. 
Appendix B-2.2 or published statistical literature can help you demonstrate the statistical validity 
of your selected model.  
4.8.5 Option C: Metering 
Whole-facility energy measurements can use the utiltity’s meters. Utility-meter data is 
considered 100% accurate for determining savings because this data defines the payment for 
energy. Utility-meter data is usually required to meet commercial accuracy regulations for sale 
of energy commodities.   
The energy supplier’s meter(s) may be equipped or modified to provide an electical pulse output 
that can be recorded by the facility's monitoring equipment. The energy-per-pulse constant of 
the pulse transmitter should be calibrated against a known reference such as similar data 
recorded by the utility meter. 
                                                  
12 All other parameters affecting energy use (i.e. “static factors” see box in Chapter 4.6) should be measured and 
recorded in the baseline and reporting periods so that non-routine adjustments can be made if needed (see Chapter 
8.8) 
13 Additional information concerning these selection procedures can be found in Reynolds and Fels (1988), Kissock et 
al. (1992, 1994) and in the ASHRAE Handbook of Fundamentals (2005) Chapter 32. ASHRAE (2002) also provides 
several statistical tests to validate the usefulness of derived regression models. 
