 
5
Retrofit Isolation (Option B) was the option used for this report. Option B is defined as: All 
parameter measurements with the boundary of the ECM (PermaFrost NMR®) as the single 
source of measurement. Savings are determined by field measurement of the energy use of the 
ECM (energy conservation method) affected equipment or system and any performance 
enhancements versus the baseline data. Measurement frequency ranges from short term to 
continuous, depending on the expected variations in the savings and the length of the reporting 
period. For the boundary utilized for Option B short-term measurements are useful as data when 
the variables are controlled. The savings are calculated by short-term measurements of baseline 
and reporting period energy, and /or engineering computations using measurements of proxies of 
energy use. 
 
The testing procedure used here utilizes the "Option B" of that protocol.  Powertron Global's use 
of this protocol under the direct application by a measurement and verification professional 
utilizes enthalpy performance verification to develop a confidence baseline. After the baseline 
has been developed the installation of PermaFrost NMR® was completed as a single ECM.  
 
What to Measure?  
  
Practical standards exist that relate to efficiency and delivery of HVAC systems performance.  
Listed below are the important considerations: 
 
Btu: Btu equals the amount of heat it takes to change the temperature of one pound of water one 
degree Fahrenheit.  The HVAC system is supposed to remove Btus from a building (or put them 
into a building). Each room needs just the right amount in and out, or it’s not comfortable.  A 
more efficient system can provide more Btuh of capacity than a less efficient one.  The goal 
would be to determine if the refrigerant allows the unit to increase Btuh output, which means that 
total operating or run time will decrease accordingly, thereby decreasing total kW hours 
consumed.  
 
Tons:  One ton of nominal cooling equals 12,000 Btu, although this factor should be termed 
“nominal” because no one makes equipment that delivers 12,000.  Under ideal conditions, most 
cooling equipment delivers around 11,700 Btu per ton.   From an efficiency perspective, more 
Btus produced per ton of HVAC system is viewed positively. 
 
Measuring enthalpy to calculate efficiency:  The amount of heat in air is referred to as 
enthalpy. In the US, the enthalpy of air (in the HVAC business) is measured in BTUs per pound 
of air. The enthalpy is directly related to the wet bulb temperature.  Air comprises gasses and 
water / moisture. The gases are mostly nitrogen (78%) and oxygen (21%). The amount of water / 
moisture in the air is expressed as a relative humidity with typical values of comfort for people 
between 20% and 65%. When heating or cooling air, both the gases (which is called sensible 
heat) and water vapor (which is called latent heat) are affected. A large amount of energy is 
required to heat or cool the water in the air. It is therefore important to know both temperature 
and relative humidity to calculate how much heating or cooling is taking place. It is especially 
important to show a change or improvement to a heating or cooling system. 
 
The enthalpy value yields the amount of heat in a pound of air. To know the total heat removed 
by the evaporator, the rate of flow of air in cubic feet per minute that passes through the 
evaporator. This measurement of heat removal by the air conditioning system is independent of 
