74        Appendix A Examples 
 
standard deviation was 24 (cv = 0.20). This was deemed an adequate measurement of 
operating hours in the baseline period, with no occupancy sensors. 
The occupancy sensor controls were installed after the above baseline test. Operating hours 
were again logged in the same locations for a month. The mean was found to be 82 hours per 
week, and the standard deviation was 3 hours. In this situation the cv is 0.04 and well within the 
required 0.2, so the one-month readings were accepted. No changes had happened to the way 
the plant was used or occupied, so there is no need to make any non-routine adjustment to the 
baseline data. 
The reduction in operating hours was 118 – 82 = 36 hours per week.  Savings were computed 
using Equation 1d) as: 
 
223 kW x 36 hours/week = 8,000 or 8.0 × 103 kWh/week 
With 48 weeks of operation every year, the annual value of the consumption savings is:   
 
= (8.0 × 103) x 48 x 450 / 100 = Rs 1.7 million 
There are no demand savings since the retrofits only affect off peak power use. 
Therefore, following IPMVP Option A, it can be stated with 90% confidence that the savings, in 
the month after occupancy sensor installation, were Rs17 lakh ±10%, given the estimate of 
installed lighting load. 
A-3-2  Street Light Efficiency and Dimming – Option B 
Situation  A Croatian city’s public lighting system was in need of substantial repair and 
updating. A new lighting system was installed on the same wiring, including high-efficiency 
fixtures and a dimming system which curtails lighting power by up to 50% in the quietest hours. 
The lighting is distributed across the city, with 23 metering points. The retrofit included the 
addition of centralized dimming control. The city retained the current lighting-maintenance 
contractor to design, install and maintain the system. The city obtained a savings performance 
guarantee from the contractor. The city required the contractor to continuously demonstrate 
achievement of the guaranteed savings. 
Factors Affecting The M&V Design  The baseline light levels were inconsistent because 20% 
of the fixtures were burned out. The city wished to maintain a more uniform light level. Therefore 
it upgraded its public lighting maintenance contract to specify that burnouts be no more than 
3.0% at any time.  
Since dimming is critical to the savings, continuous recording of energy use is required. The 23 
utility meters measure energy use continually. However these meters cannot provide the rapid 
operational feedback necessary to avoid significant energy wastage if a dimmer fails or is 
accidentally changed. Consequently an energy recording capability was added to the central 
dimming control system, to remotely record energy use in the city’s central control station. 
Beyond simple energy reporting, the system compares actual hourly energy use on each circuit 
to an expected hourly profile. Variances from this Retail Chain A are used to spot burnouts and failures 
of the dimming system. 
M&V Plan  Baseline electricity on all 23 utility meters for the past year totaled 1,753,000 kWh, 
from utility bills. The number and location of all fixtures in the baseline period was recorded as 
part of the M&V Plan, along with the operating setpoints of the lighting control system. 
Annual energy, recorded on the bills for same accounts will be totaled for determining savings 
using IPMVP Volume I, EVO 10000 – 1:2012, Option B, Equation 1c). The only adjustments that 
will be made to baseline or reporting period energy use will be for additions or deletions to the 
system and for burnouts found to be more than 3% at any time.   
