68        Appendix A Examples 
 
APPENDIX A   EXAMPLES 
A-1  Introduction 
This Appendix presents a variety of project types and discusses the key M&V design issues 
arising from the described situations. Each example shows just one IPMVP adherent M&V 
design, though there are numerous possible designs for any project.   
The examples cover 12 different scenarios: 
 
Pump/motor efficiency improvement (A-2)  
 
Pump/motor demand shifting (A-2-1)  
 
Lighting efficiency (A-3)  
 
Lighting operational control (A-3-1)  
 
Street lighting efficiency and dimming (A-3-2)  
 
Compressed air leakage management  (A-4)  
 
Turbine-generator set improvement (A-5)  
 
Boiler efficiency improvement (A-6)  
 
Multiple ECM with metered baseline data (A-7)  
 
Whole facility energy accounting relative to budget (A-7-1) 
 
Multiple ECMs in a building without energy meters in the baseline period (A-8)  
 
New building designed better than code (A-9)   
These examples go into varying levels of depth, in order to highlight different features of 
common M&V approaches. None of them is comprehensive. Readers are referred to the EVO 
website for more complete M&V Plans and sample savings reports (www.evo-world.org) 
accessible to EVO Subscribers. Also IPMVP Volume III contains example M&V applications for 
new buildings and renewable-energy projects. 
These examples from around the world use the variety of technical units and currencies in local 
common use.  The following table provides an appreciation of the magnitude of the technical 
quantities expressed in approximate alternate units. 
Multiply: 
By: 
to get: 
Natural 
gas 
m3 
35 
ft3 
mcf 
1000 
ft3 
Steam 
pound 
0.45 
kg of steam 
Oil 
liter 
0.26 
gallon (US) 
EVO subscribers are encouraged to submit their own examples for possible inclusion in the 
website’s library (email to: ipmvprev@evo-world.org ). 
A-2  Pump/Motor Efficiency Improvement – Option A 
Situation  Ten irrigation pump-sets are distributed around a South African agricultural property 
to pump water from underground wells. Pump operation is usually continuous during the normal 
six-month annual dry season, though pumps are turned on and off manually as needed. The 
local utility offered a partial subsidy to replace the pumps with new high-efficiency pumps and 
