102        Appendix B Uncertainty 
 
Where N is the number of savings results with the same Standard Error that are added together. 
Once the standard error of the savings is determined from the above procedures, it is possible 
to make appropriate concluding statements about the relative amount of uncertainty inherent in 
the savings, using the mathematics of the standard normal distribution curve, Figure B-1, or 
data in Table B-1. For example, one can compute three values:  
1. the absolute or relative precision of the total saving, for a given level of confidence (e.g., 
90%), computed using the relevant t value from Table B-1 and Equation B-7 or B-9, 
respectively. 
2. Probable Error (PE), defined as the 50% confidence range. Probable Error represents the 
most likely amount of error. That is, it is equally likely that error will be larger or smaller than 
the PE. (ASHRAE, 1997). Table B-1 shows that 50% confidence level is achieved at t = 0.67 
for samples sizes larger than 120, or 0.67 standard errors from the mean value. So the 
range of probable error in reported savings using Equation B-8 is ±0.67 x SE (Savings). 
3. The 90% Confidence Limit (CL), defined as the range where we are 90% certain that 
random effects did not produce the observed difference. From Table B-1 using Equation B-
8, CL is ±1.64 x SE(Savings) for sample sizes larger than 120. 
B-5.1 Assessing Interactions of Multiple Components of Uncertainty 
Equations B-19 and B-20 for combining uncertainty components can be used to estimate how 
errors in one component will affect the accuracy of the overall savings report. M&V resources 
can then be designed to cost-effectively reduce error in reported savings. Such design 
considerations would take into account the costs and the effects on savings precision of 
possible improvements in the precision of each component.  
Software applications written for common spreadsheet tools allow for easy assessment of the 
net error associated with the combination of multiple components of uncertainty, using Monte 
Carlo techniques. Monte Carlo analysis allows the assessment of multiple “what if” scenarios 
revealing a range of possible outcomes, their probability of occurring, and which component has 
the most effect on the final output. Such analysis identifies where resources need to be 
allocated to control error. 
A simple illustration of “what if” analysis is presented below for a lighting retrofit. A nominally 96 
watt light fixture is replaced with a nominal 64-watt fixture. If the fixture operates for 10 hours 
every day, the annual savings would be computed as: 
 
 
 
 
kWh
Savings
Annual
117
000
,1
365
10
)
64
96
(





 
 
The new 64-watt fixture’s wattage is consistent and easily measured with accuracy. However 
there is much variation among the old-fixture wattages and among the hours of use in different 
locations. Old-fixture wattages and hours of use are not easily measured with certainty. 
Therefore the savings will also not be known with certainty. The M&V design challenge is to 
determine the impact on reported savings if the measurement of either of these uncertain 
quantities is in error by plausible amounts. 
Figure B2 shows a sensitivity analysis of the savings for the two parameters, old-fixture watts, 
and hours of use. Each is varied by up to 30% and the impact on savings is shown. It can be 
seen that savings are significantly more sensitive to variation in old-fixture wattage than to hours 
of use. A 30% wattage error produces a 90% savings error, while a 30% error in operating 
hours produces only a 30% savings error. 
