12        IPMVP Framework and Options 
 
Reporting Period 
The user of the savings reports should determine the length of the reporting period. The 
reporting period should encompass at least one normal operating cycle of the equipment or 
facility, in order to fully characterize the savings effectiveness in all normal operating modes.  
Some projects may cease reporting savings after a defined "test" period ranging from an 
instantaneous reading to a year or two.  
The length of any reporting period should be determined with due consideration of the life of the 
ECM and the likelihood of degradation of originally achieved savings over time.  
Regardless of the length of the reporting period, metering may be left in place to provide 
feedback of operating data for routine management purposes and specifically to detect 
subsequent adverse changes in performance. Section 4.9 explains this at greater length. 
If reducing the frequency of savings measurement after initial proof of performance, other on 
site monitoring activities could be intensified to ensure savings remain in place.  
IPMVP-adherent savings can only be reported for the reporting period that uses IPMVP-
adherent procedures. If IPMVP-adherent savings are used as a basis for assuming future 
savings, future savings reports do not adhere to IPMVP.  
Adjacent Measurement Periods (On/Off Test) 
When an ECM can be turned on and off easily, baseline and reporting periods may be selected 
that are adjacent to each other in time. A change in control logic is an example of an ECM that 
can often be readily removed and reinstated without affecting the facility. 
Such “On/Off tests” involve energy measurements with the ECM in effect, and then immediately 
thereafter with the ECM turned off so that pre-ECM (baseline) conditions return. The difference 
in energy use between the two adjacent measurement periods is the savings created by the 
ECM. Equation 1) of Chapter 4.1 can be used for computing savings, without an adjustments 
term if all energy-influencing factors are the same in the two adjacent periods. 
This technique can be applied under both Retrofit Isolation and Whole-Facility Options. 
However measurement boundaries must be located so that it is possible to readily detect a 
significant difference in metered energy use when equipment or systems are turned on and off.   
The adjacent periods used for the On/Off test should be long enough to represent stable 
operation. The periods should also cover the range of normal facility operations. To cover the 
normal range, the On/Off test may need to be repeated under different operating modes such as 
various seasons or production rates. 
Take notice that ECMs which can be turned Off for such testing also risk being accidentally or 
maliciously turned Off when intended to be On. 
4.5.3  Basis For Adjustments 
The adjustments term shown in Equation 1) of Chapter 4.1 should be computed from identifiable 
physical facts about the energy governing characteristics of equipment within the measurement 
boundary. Two types of adjustments are possible: 
 
Routine Adjustments – for any energy-governing factors, expected to change routinely 
during the reporting period, such as weather or production volume. A variety of techniques 
can be used to define the adjustment methodology. Techniques may be as simple as a 
constant value (no adjustment) or as complex as a several multiple parameter non-linear 
equations each correlating energy with one or more independent variables. Valid 
mathematical techniques must be used to derive the adjustment method for each M&V Plan. 
See Appendix B for some guidance on assessing the validity of mathematical methods. 
and 
