x        Preface 
 
to exisiting facilities (Part II). This volume is expected to be an area of continued development 
as more specific applications are defined. 
International Energy Efficiency Financing Protocol (IEEFP) 
The IEEFP provides guidelines for local financing institutions around the world to evaluate and 
finance energy efficiency and savings-based renewable projects.  
History Of Previous Editions  
The first edition of IPMVP, entitled the North American Energy Measurement and Verification 
Protocol, was published in March 1996.  It was modified in December 1997 then renamed the 
International Performance Measurment and Verification Protocol. Options A and B were 
changed substantially when IPMVP was re-published in 2001 and minor editorial changes were 
added in a 2002 edition. Volume II on Indoor Environmental Quality was published in 2002. 
Committees, sponsored by the United States’ Department of Energy (DOE) wrote and edited 
these documents. 
In 2002, IPMVP Inc. was incorporated as an independent non-profit corporation in order to 
include the international community and relieve the U.S. Department of Energy of its 
responsibilities as the organizer.  IPMVP Inc. raised its own funds, created a website, and 
published the new Volume III Parts on New Construction and Renewables. In 2004, IPMVP Inc. 
was renamed Efficiency Valuation Organization as it expanded its focus.   
In 2007, EVO updated IPMVP Volume I primarily for clarity, thought re-writing the uncertainty 
Appendix B. No substantive changes were made to the core concepts, though the titles of 
Options A & B were expanded along with their descriptive materials, to ensure proper 
understanding. In 2009, Volume I was modified to separate USA-specific references and to 
establish a structure for many region-specific materials in a new Appendix C for the USA and 
France. . In 2010, Volume I was modified to add more European references and Appendices, 
and updated the significant digitis presentation. 
Training And Certification 
EVO recognizes that documents alone will not improve the valuation of energy efficiency in the 
world. Therefore EVO and its world wide partners introduced awareness and training programs 
about measurement and verification. These programs educate professionals on methods and 
recent developments in M&V. 
EVO also has a Certified Measurement and Verification Professional (CVMP) program for  
professionals who pass a test demonstrating their knowledge of IPMVP and have appropriate 
knowledge experience or training. CMVP®s should be competent to develop M&V Plans and to 
manage M&V programs for straightforward applications. For more information on the CMVP® 
program, and for the names of designated CMVP®s, visit www.evo-world.org . 
EVO’s Future Plans 
EVO’s subscribers, and volunteers determine its future plans to create new educational efforts 
and documents about efficiency valuation. EVO welcomes IPMVP readers to become EVO 
subscribers, provide recommendations, and participate in new and existing EVO activities.   
In light of its international focus, EVO is in the process of: 
 
Developing active regional affiliates who contribute to the development and maintenance of 
EVO publications;  
 
Conducting additional training and certification programs around the world; 
 
Preparing its latest documents in a variety of languages; and 
