 
7
 
Sensible heating Btu is measured by CFM x Delta-T x 1.08. To measure heating Btu, multiply 
the measure supply airflow (in CFM) by the temperature change from the average supply register 
temperature to the average return grille temperature, and multiply this total by the formula 
constant of 1.08. 
 
The easiest way to find latent Btu is to subtract delivered sensible Btu from the delivered total 
Btu. A simple formula to find latent Btu is total Btu minus sensible Btu.  The 1.08 is a constant 
in the sensible Btu formula and is based on the air density under standard conditions. This is at 
70F, at sea level, and at 50% relative humidity. That weight is 0.075 lbs./cu ft. times the specific 
heat of standard air of 0.24 Btu/lb., times 60 minutes in an hour. We calculate Btu per hour 
because since we express Btu’s in per-hour units. The total Btu constant of 4.5 is found by 
multiplying the weight of standard air of .075/lb. by 60 minutes in an hour. 
 
System Performance:  NCI’s acceptable standard for delivered Btu in a live system was only 
90% of rated equipment Btu capacity. Ninety percent is a tough standard for heating and cooling 
system performance. Currently, few contractors in the U.S. can achieve this level of performance 
in systems they service and sell.  
 
Instrumentation:  The instruments utilized were certified for this test under NIST standards. 
Identical data was gathered during the pre and post periods utilizing the identical instruments and 
the identical methods.  The following were used in this test: 
 
• CFM was verified by the use of a Fieldpiece Model# STA2 hot wire anemometer 
calibrated to an accuracy of + or - 1%.  
• The wet and dry bulb temperatures were gathered by a Fieldpiece model # SRH3 digital 
psychrometers calibrated to an accuracy of + or - 1%.  
• The refrigerant pressures and temperatures were gathered by a Testo digital analyzer 
model# 550 calibrated to an accuracy of + or - 0.75%.  
• The electrical data comprised of true RMS voltage and amperage averaged across the 
three phases was gathered by a Fluke True RMS digital model 381 instrument calibrated 
to an accuracy of + or - 0.01%. 
 
METHODOLOGY 
 
Task 1 
 
Demonstrating the benefits of chemical alterations to heat exchange surfaces and the effect it has 
on the performance of refrigerants is difficult to demonstrate if not in-situ.  Alternatives include 
conducting a series of tests on steel cylinder bearings or other materials to evaluate stop pressure, 
bearing damage at stop pressure and stop time.  However, developing equipment that will 
eliminate human error in such a process is difficult, and the results do not prove anything 
significant with respect to the performance in the HVAC system.  Instead the best means to 
analyze the performance change it to directly compare results for the same building, and the 
same HVAC system, before and after the refrigerant performance alteration, keeping in mind 
that HVAC system efficiency tends to decrease with time due to oil fouling.  As a result, field-
testing of HVAC units immediately before and after the use of PermaFrost NMR® provides 
some initial insight once other variables are accounted for.  Longer term monitoring is not 
