4        Definition and Purposes of M&V 
 
CHAPTER 2   DEFINITION AND PURPOSES OF M&V  
“Measurement and Verification” (M&V) is the process of using measurement to reliably 
determine actual savings4 created within an individual facility by an energy management 
program. Savings cannot be directly measured, since they represent the absence of energy 
use. Instead, savings are determined by comparing measured use before and after 
implementation of a project, making appropriate adjustments for changes in conditions.  
M&V activities consist of some or all of the following: 
 
meter installation calibration and maintenance,  
 
data gathering and screening, 
 
development of a computation method and acceptable estimates,  
 
computations with measured data, and 
 
reporting, quality assurance, and third party verification of reports.  
When there is little doubt about the outcome of a project, or no need to prove results to another 
party, applying M&V methods to calculate savings may not be necessary. However, it is still 
wise to verify (initially and repeatedly) that the installed equipment is able to produce the 
expected savings. Verification of the potential to achieve savings is referred to as operational 
verification,  which may involve inspection, commissioning of equipment, functional performance 
testing and/or data trending (see Section 4.4. below). IPMVP-adherent M&V includes both 
operational verification and an accounting of savings based on site energy measurements 
before and after implementation of a project, and adjustments, as described above.   
M&V is not just a collection of tasks conducted to help a project meet IPMVP requirements. 
Properly integrated, each  M&V task serves to enhance and improve facility operation and 
maintenance of savings. As shown in Figure 1, M&V activities overlap with other project efforts 
(e.g. collecting data to both identify ECMs and establish energy baselines, commissioning and 
operational verification of installed ECMs, and installing monitoring systems to track and 
maintain savings persistence, etc.). Identifying these project synergies and establishing roles 
and responsibilities of involved parties during project planning will support a coordinated team 
effort. This can leverage complementary scopes and control M&V-related costs.  
 
Plan
• Identify ECMs
• Document 
baseline energy
• Plan and 
coordinate 
M&V activities
• Design ECMs
Install
• Install ECMs
• Commission
• Verify 
Operations
Maintain
• Gather data
• Verify Savings
• Report
• Document 
project feedback
• Assure 
persistence
 
                                                  
4 Words in italics have the special meanings defined in Chapter 9. 
 
 
Figure 1 
Process 
Timeline 
(M&V 
activities in 
bold) 
