82        Appendix A Examples 
 
stated her energy budgets under long-term average weather conditions and the previous year’s 
occupancy.  
Results  In order to account for budget variances, as soon as a year was complete, the energy 
manager prepared a regression model of the usage on each utility account, using actual 
weather and occupancy factors for that year. She then took three steps to separately determine 
the primary effects of weather, occupancy and utility rates: 
 
Weather She inserted normal weather statistics into the most recent year’s models. Using 
actual utility rates for the year, she determined how much the energy (and cost) would have 
been if the weather had been normal. (She also noted how much the actual heating and 
cooling degree days varied from normal, and from the previous year, at each location.) 
 
Occupancy She inserted the occupancy factors of the previous year into the most recent 
year’s models. Using actual utility rates for the recent year, she determined how much the 
energy (and cost) would have been if the occupancy had been the same as the previous 
year. (She also noted how much the occupancy had changed from year to year at each 
location.) 
 
Utility Rates She applied the previous year’s utility rate to the most recent year’s 
consumption (and demand) to determine how much of the budget variance was related to 
rate changes for each utility at each location. 
With the impact of these three known variables defined, the energy manager still needed to 
account for the remaining variances. So she inserted the recent year’s weather and occupancy 
factors into the mathematical models of the previous year, and using current utility rates 
reported cost avoidance from the previous year’s pattern. This cost avoidance was then 
analyzed in relation to changes in static factors recorded for each site relative to the previous 
year’s record.  All remaining variance was reported as truly random, or unknown phenomena.   
This analysis process not only allowed the energy manager to account for budget variances, it 
also informed her of where to focus efforts to manage unaccounted variances. In addition it 
allowed her to make more informed budgets for subsequent years. 
A-8  Multiple ECMs In A Building Without Energy Meters In The Baseline 
Period – Option D  
Situation  An energy efficiency project was implemented in an American university library 
building, involving seven ECMs spanning lighting, HVAC, operator training and occupant 
awareness campaigns. The building is part of a multiple-building campus without individual 
building meters. The objectives of the project were to reduce energy costs in the library. 
Factors Affecting The M&V Design  Since the project at the library was very small relative to 
the entire campus, its effect could not be measured using the main campus utility meters. 
The university wished to achieve savings as quickly as possible, despite the lack of a baseline 
energy record.  
Savings are to be reported continuously, as soon as possible after retrofit, using the then 
current energy contract prices. 
M&V Plan  It was decided not to wait to obtain a year’s worth of energy data from new meters 
before implementing the measures.  Instead IPMVP Volume I, EVO 10000 – 1:2012, Option D, 
Equation 1f) would be used, simulating pre-retrofit performance. Therefore, as part of the 
energy-management program steam, electricity and electric demand meters were installed on 
the main supply lines to the library.   
The measurement boundary of this project was defined as all energy-using systems in the 
library. However the important energy effect was at the main campus utility meters. To 
