 
Other Common M&V Issues       43 
 
method of tracking and reporting changes in these same static factors. This tracking of 
conditions may be performed by one or more of: the facility owner, the agent creating savings, 
or a third party verifier. It should be established in the M&V Plan who will track and report each 
static factor. 
Where the nature of future changes can be anticipated, methods for making the relevant non-
routine adjustments should be included in the M&V Plan. 
Non-routine adjustments are determined from actual or assumed physical changes in 
equipment or operations (static factors). Sometimes it may be difficult to quantify the impact of 
changes, for example, if they are numerous or not well documented. If the facility's energy 
consumption record is used to quantify the impact of such changes, the impact of the ECMs on 
the facilitiy’s energy consumption must first be removed by Option B techniques. Option C 
cannot be used to determine savings when the facilitiy’s energy meter is also used to quantify 
the impact of changes to static factors. 
8.3  The Role Of Uncertainty (Accuracy) 
The measurement of any physical quantity includes errors because no measurement instrument 
is 100% accurate. Errors are the differences between observed and true energy use. In a 
savings-determination process, errors prevent the exact determination of savings. Equation 1) 
usually involves at least two such measurement errors (baseline and reporting period energy), 
and whatever error exists in the computed adjustments. To ensure that the resultant error 
(uncertainty) is acceptable to the users of a savings report, be certain to manage the errors 
inherent in measurement and analysis when developing and implementing the M&V Plan.   
Characteristics of a savings determination process which should be carefully reviewed to 
manage accuracy or uncertainty are: 
 
Instrumentation – measurement equipment errors are due to calibration, inexact 
measurement, or improper meter selection installation or operation.   
 
Modeling – the inability to find mathematical forms that fully account for all variations in 
energy use. Modeling errors can be due to inappropriate functional form, inclusion of 
irrelevant variables, or exclusion of relevant variables. 
 
Sampling – use of a sample of the full population of items or events to represent the entire 
population introduces error as a result of: the variation in values within the population, or 
biased sampling. Sampling17 may be done in either a physical sense (i.e., only 2% of the 
lighting fixtures are measured) or a temporal sense (instantaneous measurement only once 
per hour).   
 
Interactive effects (beyond the measurement boundary) that are not fully included in the 
savings computation methodology.  
 
Estimation of parameters using Option A, rather than measurement. You can minimize the 
variation between the parameter’s estimated value and its true value through careful review 
of the ECM design, careful estimating of the parameter, and careful ECM inspection after 
installation.  
Methods of quantifying, evaluating and reducing some of these uncertainties are discussed in 
this document’s  Appendix B. Appendix C lists some references from different regions about 
applying standard-error-analysis methods to the typical savings determination. These 
quantification tools should only be used to develop the M&V Plan, in order to test the inherent 
uncertainty associated with optional M&V program characteristics.  
                                                  
17 As used in this Protocol, sampling does not refer to rigorous statistical procedures, but to the best practices as 
addressed in Appendix B-3.   
