 
IPMVP Framework and Options       15 
 
 
Fixed Conditions Basis or Normalized Savings  
Conditions other than those of the reporting period may be used as the basis for adjustment. 
The conditions may be those of the baseline period, some other arbitrary period, or a typical, 
average or ‘normal’ set of conditions.  
Adjustment to a fixed set of conditions reports a style of savings which could be called 
“normalized savings” of the reporting period. In this method energy of the reporting period and 
possibly of the baseline period are adjusted from their actual conditions to the common fixed (or 
‘normal’) set of conditions selected.  
Equation 1c) restates the more general Equation 1a) for such normalized savings reports: 
 
Normalized Savings =  
 
( Baseline Energy    Routine Adjustments to fixed conditions  
 
 Non-Routine Adjustments to fixed conditions ) 
 
- ( Reporting Period Energy    Routine Adjustments to fixed conditions 
 
 Non-Routine Adjustments to fixed conditions ) 
 
 
1c) 
 
The calculation of the reporting period routine-adjustments term usually involves the 
development of a mathematical model correlating reporting-period energy with the independent 
variables of the reporting period. This model is then used to adjust reporting-period energy to 
the chosen fixed conditions. Further, if the fixed set of conditions is not from the baseline period, 
a mathematical model of baseline energy is also used to adjust baseline energy to the chosen 
fixed conditions.  
 
Independent Variables
An independent variable is a parameter that is expected to change regularly and have 
a measurable impact on the energy use of a system or facility. For example, a 
common independent variable governing building energy use is outdoor temperature. 
Likewise in a manufacturing plant the number of units produced in a period is often an 
independent variable significantly affecting energy use. Another common 
independent variable is the number of seconds, hours or days in each metering 
period. See also Chapter 4.9.3. 
