36        M&V Plan Contents 
 
CHAPTER 5   M&V PLAN  CONTENTS  
The preparation of an M&V Plan is a recommended part of savings determination. Advance 
planning ensures that all data needed for savings determination will be available after 
implementation of the ECM(s), within an acceptable budget.  
Data from the baseline and details of the ECMs may be lost over time. Therefore record them 
for future reference in case conditions change or ECMs fail. Documentation should be easy to 
find and easy to understand by verifiers and others, because years may pass before these data 
are needed.  
A complete M&V Plan should include discussion of the following 13 topics:  
1. ECM Intent   Describe the ECM, its intended result, and the operational verification 
procedures that will be used to verify successful implementation of each ECM. Identify any 
planned changes to conditions of the baseline, such as unoccupied building temperature 
settings. 
2. Selected IPMVP Option and Measurement Boundary   Specify which IPMVP Option, 
defined in Chapters 4.8 – 4.10, will be used to determine savings. This identification should 
include the date of publication or the version number and Volume number of the IPMVP 
edition being followed (IPMVP Volume I EVO 10000-1:2012), for example). Identify the 
measurement boundary of the savings determination. The boundary may be as narrow as 
the flow of energy through a pipe or wire, or as broad as the total energy use of one or many 
facilities. Describe the nature of any interactive effects beyond the measurement boundary 
together with their possible effects (see Chapter 4.4).  
3. Baseline: Period, Energy and Conditions  Document the facility’s baseline conditions and 
energy data, within the measurement boundary. (In energy performance contracts, baseline 
energy and baseline conditions may be defined by either the owner or the ESCO, providing 
the other party is given adequate opportunity to verify them.)  
An energy audit used for establishing the objectives of a savings program or terms of an 
energy performance contract usually provides most if not all of the baseline documentation 
needed in the M&V Plan. This baseline documentation should include:  
a) Identification of the baseline period (Chapter 4.5.1) 
b) All baseline energy consumption and demand data  
c) All independent variable data coinciding with the energy data (e.g. production rate, 
ambient temperature) 
d) All static factors coinciding with the energy data: 
- Occupancy type, density and periods  
- Operating conditions for each baseline operating period and season, other than the 
independent variables. (For example, in an industrial process, baseline operating 
conditions might include product type(s), raw material type, and number of 
production shifts per day. In a building baseline operating conditions might include 
light level, space temperature humidity and ventilation levels. An assessment of 
thermal comfort and/or indoor air quality (IAQ) may also prove useful in cases where 
the new system performs differently than the old inefficient system. See IPMVP 
Volume II.) 
- Description of any baseline conditions that fall short of required conditions. For 
example, the space is under-heated during the baseline, but the ECM will restore the 
desired temperature. Details of all adjustments that are necessary to the baseline 
