56        Definitions 
 
temperature may be used for recording degree days, though it is usually chosen to reflect the 
temperature at which a particular building no longer needs heating or cooling. 
Demand:  The rate of energy use. Many utilities base a portion of their bills on the highest (or 
peak) demand they measure during each billing period. Peak demand value are sometimes 
referred to as simply “demand.” Electrical demand is normally expressed in kilowatts (kW). The 
sum of monthly billed kW quantities can be expressed in unit of kW-months. See also Demand 
Ratchet.  
Demand Ratchet:  A method utilities use to establish the demand for which they invoice when it 
is different from the demand they meter. Utilities may consider seasonal maximums or 
minimums, power factor, or contract amounts to set the demand on invoices (called “billing 
demand”).   
Energy:  Energy or water use, or demand.  
Energy Conservation Measure (ECM):  An activity or set of activities designed to increase the 
energy efficiency of a facility, system or piece of equipment. ECMs may also conserve energy 
without changing efficiency. Several ECM's may be carried out in a facility at one time, each 
with a different thrust. An ECM may involve one or more of: physical changes to facility 
equipment, revisions to operating and maintenance procedures, software changes, or new 
means of training or managing users of the space or operations and maintenance staff. An ECM 
may be applied as a retrofit to an existing system or facility, or as a modification to a design 
before construction of a new system or facility. 
Energy Performance Contract:  A contract between two or more parties where payment is 
based on achieving specified results, such as reductions in energy costs or payback of 
investment within a stated period. 
Energy Services Company (ESCO):  A firm which provides services of design and 
construction of ECMs under an energy performance contract. 
Estimate:  A process of determining a parameter used in a savings calculation through methods 
other than measuring it in the baseline and reporting periods. These methods may range from 
arbitrary assumptions to engineering estimates derived from manufacturer’s rating of equipment 
performance. Equipment performance tests that are not made in the place where they are used 
during the reporting period are estimates, for purposes of adherence with IPMVP. 
Facility:  A building or industrial site containing several energy using systems. A wing or section 
of a larger facility can be treated as a facility of its own if it has meters which separately 
measure all of its energy.  
Independent Variable:  A parameter that is expected to change regularly and have a 
measurable impact on the energy use of a system or facility. 
Interactive Effects:  Energy effects created by an ECM but not measured within the 
measurement boundary. 
Marginal Price:  The cost of one additional unit of a commodity billed under a complex rate 
schedule. 
Mean:  See Appendix B-1.3. 
Mean Bias Error (MBE):  See Appendix B-2.2.2. 
Measurement and Verification (M&V): The process of using measurements to reliably 
determine actual savings created within an individual facility by an energy management 
program. Savings cannot be directly measured, since they represent the absence of energy 
use. Instead savings are determined by comparing measured use before and after 
implementation of a project, making appropriate adjustments for changes in conditions. See 
also Chapter 2. 
