 
3
heat exchange. When a system is new it is operating at its highest efficiency.  As years go by and 
run time of the system is accumulated, that same initial efficiency is decreased. This decrease is a 
direct result of the oil coating all of the heat exchange surfaces, resulting in longer run times. 
 
The refrigerant lines within the heat exchangers and that connect split systems are metal and 
therefore have a positive charge, while the oil and refrigerant have a negative charge. The oil will 
stick to the refrigerant wall lines and as it breaks down, more will stick, ultimately building up a 
layer of degraded oil on the surface. If there were a compound that could remove the insulating 
oil from these heat exchanger surfaces and improve the ability of the heat exchangers to develop 
a more efficient transfer of energy, the result would be restored BTUH capacity and reduced total 
kWh. 
 
PermaFrost NMR®, covered by US patent numbers 6369006, 6362139, 6286323, and 6276147, 
is purported to be such a product.  The concept behind PermaFrost NMR® is that it has a higher 
negative charge than either the refrigerant or refrigerant oil used by manufacturers in their 
systems. When installed, PermaFrost NMR® penetrates and binds to the metal lattice in the 
refrigerant lines and heat exchange surfaces. Subsequently this action removes the fouled oil, 
which will return back into circulation and ultimately to the compressor oil reservoir where it 
should be. As the PermaFrost NMR® displaces the trapped oil it will restore the ability of the 
heat exchanger to transfer heat energy back to near design specifications. With the restored 
ability of the heat exchanger, the system will be able to produce colder air therefore satisfy the 
thermostat in the conditioned space sooner enabling the unit to run less to perform the same 
work. This is where most of the savings are achieved. 
 
There are several questions about this technology that require answers.  The first question is 
whether there is anything in PermaFrost NMR® that would reduce the refrigerant lubricating oil 
surface bonding, to allow it (the refrigeration oil) to be displaced by the PermaFrost NMR®?  A 
polar molecule would have a higher attraction to the metal and displace the lower charged oil 
molecules. This would mean the system efficiency would improve after PermaFrost NMR™ is 
added.  If there is no surface bonding or displacement of refrigerant oil, then no improvement 
should be seen in the short term. 
 
The second question is whether the PermaFrost NMR® can adversely impact the refrigerant 
flow?  If PermaFrost NMR® does work at the micro level and can replace the trapped 
refrigerant oil, reduce laminar friction and return refrigerant oil from the heat exchangers, it 
would only improve the flow.  If it does not accomplish the above, it would only add to the 
volume of oil in the heat exchangers and possibly reduce refrigerant flow.   
 
An accompanying question about product longevity inside a system have been asked, including 
one of the large utilities that currently provides rebates for PermaFrost NMR®.   An oil analysis 
stamped by a PE shows all of the tests required to satisfactorily provide an answer.  While the 
chemical specifics of these three questions is technically beyond the scope of this review, they 
play into the results included in this reports.  To address these three questions, a lab test showing 
long-term compatibility with metals, groups of refrigerants, and common by products of 
refrigeration, as well as thermo conductivity and friction tests is attached. (Appendix A). The 
conclusion from this review was: 
 
