 
2
  
 
BACKGROUND 
 
The world needs more energy production in the coming years.  The dependence on foreign oil 
and the need to improve efficiency have been national goals for nearly 40 years.  The 
development of additional power generating facilities however has been slow, compared to 
energy demand control.  This is in part because current public service commission rules make 
recovery of costs for large-scale power projects difficult and smaller increments of green power 
are just emerging as cost effective alternatives.   
       
At the same time, the energy sector struggles with improving the efficiency of mechanical parts 
in its efforts to increase power production or decrease power use.  For example, much of the 
potential energy in fossil fuels and coal is lost to heat, making these processes less than 40% 
efficient, which is far better than the 15% efficiency for a car engine, but is still a significant loss 
of potential energy.  Incremental improvements in efficiency at either the customer or power 
generation point yield significant benefits across the grid, especially in peak times. 
 
Because siting and constructing power plants is an arduous and expensive process, many power 
companies have attempted to extend the life of their current power generating facilities by 
offering rebates to customers for energy saving measures like insulation, more efficient 
appliances and HVAC system renovations.  HVAC systems are often the largest users of power 
for homes and businesses, especially in the State of Florida and the rest of the southern United 
States where humidity is a concurrent issue. HVAC may consume 60-80 percent of the power 
used in homes and businesses.  Since HVAC efficiency tends to decrease linearly with time due 
to oil fouling in their heat exchangers. The ability to improve HVAC performance, or to extend 
the life of HVAC system efficiency, would be of benefit both to customers and power generating 
entities. For the customer, the benefits include the potential for reduced maintenance and shorter 
recovery times for their investments. For power suppliers, the benefits include the delay of the 
next increment of power supply.  From a power industry perspective, the more efficient the 
HVAC system,  the more available power there is on the grid for new customers, the lower the 
carbon emissions and the more palatable the options is as a green solution.  
 
Most mechanisms to improve efficiency of HVAC system are mechanical – if the parts work 
more efficiently, the power draw will be less and the ability to perform additional work will be 
displayed as increased capacity (Btuh).  Among the issues in the compressor is the heat buildup 
from mechanical friction.  The mechanical friction will cause a heat loss, which then manifests 
itself as a reduction in efficiency of the unit.  Friction also increases wear on the unit, which 
further reduces the efficiency of the units over time.  If the friction can be reduced, efficiency 
should improve and the life of the equipment should increase.  Demonstrating a means to reduce 
friction is difficult.   
 
Within most conventional HVAC systems there is lubricating oil. The primary use of the oil is to 
lubricate the compressor. As the compressor pushes the refrigerant out, the small amount of oil 
that is there to lubricate will get pushed out with the refrigerant.  Over time the oil is going build 
layer upon layer in the refrigerant lines, just as it does in your car’s engine where oil escapes the 
compression stroke and is combusted.  In HVAC over time the compressor oil is going to escape 
the compressor and coat the heat exchangers. Oil is an insulator and therefore will impede the 
