30        IPMVP Framework and Options 
 
 
some complex HVAC system changes.  
4.9.1 Option D: Types of Simulation Programs  
Information on building simulation programs in common use in different parts of the world can 
be found in Appendix C herein  
Whole-building-simulation programs usually use hourly calculation techniques. However 
simplified HVAC system models may also be used if the building’s heat losses, heat gains, 
internal loads, and HVAC systems are simple. Other types of special-purpose programs may be 
used to simulate energy use and operation of devices or industrial processes.  
Any software used must be well documented and well understood by the user. Due to the wide 
variety of available methods, it is prudent to receive acceptance by the owner or project 
authority of the proposed modeling program before commencing analysis. 
4.9.2 Option D: Calibration  
Savings determined with Option D are based on one or more complex estimates of energy use. 
The accuracy of the savings depends on how well the simulation models actual equipment 
performance, and how well calibrated it is to metered energy performance.  
Calibration is achieved by verifying that the simulation model reasonably predicts the energy 
patterns of the facility by comparing model results to a set of calibration data. These calibration 
data include measured energy data, independent variables and static factor.  
Calibration of building simulations is usually done with 12 monthly utility bills. These bills should 
be from a period of stable operation. In a new building, it may take a number of months before 
full occupancy and before the staff learns the best ways to operate the facility. The calibration 
data should be documented in the M&V Plan along with a description of its sources.  
Detailed operating data from the facility help to develop the calibration data. These data might 
include operating characteristics, occupancy, weather, loads and equipment efficiency. Some 
variables may be measured for short intervals (day, week or month) or extracted from existing 
operating logs. The accuracy of meters should be verified for critical measurements. If 
resources permit, building ventilation and infiltration should be measured because these 
quantities often vary widely from expectations. One-time measurements will improve simulation 
accuracy without much additional cost. On/off tests can measure lighting, receptacle loads and 
motor control centers. These tests can be performed over a weekend using a data logger or 
building automation system to record whole-facility energy use, usually at one-minute intervals, 
Sometimes, inexpensive portable loggers, which are synchronized to a common time, are also 
effective for short-term measurement (Benton et al. 1996, Houcek et al. 1993, Soebarto 1996).  
Following collection of as much calibration data as possible, the steps in calibrating the 
simulation are as listed below.  
1. Assume other necessary input parameters, and document them.  
2. Whenever possible, gather actual weather data from the calibration period, especially if 
weather conditions varied significantly from standard-year weather data used in the basic 
simulations. However, obtaining and preparing actual weather data for use with a simulation 
may be time-consuming and expensive. If developing an actual weather data file is too 
difficult, then adjust an average weather file to resemble actual weather data using valid 
statistical methods.  
3. Run the simulation and verify that it predicts operating parameters such as temperature and 
humidity.  
4. Compare the simulated energy results with the metered energy data from the calibration 
period, on an hourly or monthly basis.  
