 
Appendix A Examples         71 
 
EVO 10000 – 1:2012, Option A, using estimated operating hours. The M&V Plan was to be 
detailed after contract signing. 
Factors Affecting the M&V Design  In developing the M&V Plan the following were 
considered:  
 
All light fixtures are powered by a common 347-volt supply system dedicated to lighting. This 
situation makes power measurement simple.  
 
Operation of lights significantly affects heating energy requirements, so the interactive effect 
needed to be estimated. 
 
Operation of lights significantly affects mechanical-cooling requirements.  However, since 
very little of the school is mechanically cooled and that space is usually vacant during the 
warmer weather, cooling interactive effects were ignored. 
 
School-board officials had difficulty accepting an arbitrary assumption of lighting operating 
periods. They agreed to pay for a carefully instrumented two-month period of logging lighting 
patterns in one school. This test would substantiate the estimated operating hours that 
would be agreed for all schools. 
M&V Plan  The measurement boundary of this ECM was drawn to include the lighting fixtures 
connected to the 347-volt supply system.   
 
The heating interactive effect was determined by engineering calculations to be a 6.0% 
increase in boiler-output energy requirements, for the period from November through March. 
Boiler efficiency in winter was estimated to be 79% under typical winter conditions.  
 
The static factors recorded for the baseline included a lighting survey giving a description, 
location, light level, and count of the number of operating and burned out lamps ballasts and 
fixtures.  
 
30 lighting loggers were placed in randomly chosen classrooms, corridors, locker rooms, 
and offices and also in the gym and auditorium, for two months.  This period included the 
one-week spring holiday and two legal holidays. Table A-3-1 summarizes the data obtained. 
 
Location 
Fraction of 
Lighting Load 
Mean weekly hours 
School 
Time
Holiday 
Time
Locker rooms 
5% 
106. 
22. 
Offices 
5% 
83. 
21. 
Classrooms 
61% 
48. 
5. 
Auditorium
10%
31.
11.
Gymnasium 
10% 
82. 
25. 
Corridors 
9% 
168. 
168. 
 
Since classrooms are the largest load, the relative precision of the classroom operating period 
measurements was evaluated before school board officials could agree to estimated values.  
For the 19 classroom loggers, the standard deviation among the readings for 6 recorded school 
weeks was found to be 15 hours per week. With 19 x 6 = 114 readings, the standard error in the 
mean values was computed to be 1.4 hours per week (Equation B-4). At 95% confidence, the 
value of t for a large number of observations is 1.96 (Table B-1).  Therefore, using Equation B-9, 
it was established with 95% confidence that the relative precision in the measured classroom 
operating hours is: 
 
Table A-3-1 
Operating Period 
Survey 
