28        IPMVP Framework and Options 
 
Separate meters installed by the facility owner can measure whole-facility energy. The accuracy 
of these meters should be considered in the M&V Plan, together with a way of comparing its 
readings with the utility meter readings. 
4.8.6 Option C: Cost 
Option C’s cost depends on the source of the energy data, and the difficulty of tracking static 
factors within the measurement boundary to enable non-routine adjustments during the 
reporting period. The utility meter or an existing sub-meter works well if the meter’s data is 
properly recorded. This choice requires no extra metering cost. 
The cost of tracking changes in static factors depends on the facility’s size, the likelihood of 
static-factor change, the difficulty of detecting changes, and the surveillance procedures already 
in place.  
4.8.7 Option C: Best Applications  
Option C is best applied where:  
 
The energy performance of the whole facility will be assessed, not just the ECMs.  
 
There are many types of ECMs in one facility.  
 
The ECMs involve activities whose individual energy use is difficult to separately measure 
(operator training, wall or window upgrades, for example).  
 
The savings are large compared to the variance in the baseline data, during the reporting 
period (See Appendix B-1.2).  
 
When Retrofit-Isolation techniques (Option A or B) are excessively complex. For example, 
when interactive effects or interactions between ECMs are substantial.   
 
Major future changes to the facility are not expected during the reporting period.  
 
A system of tracking static factors can be established to enable possible future non-routine 
adjustments.  
 
Reasonable correlations can be found between energy use and other independent 
variables.  
4.9   Option D: Calibrated Simulation  
Option D, Calibrated Simulation, involves the use of computer simulation software to predict 
facility energy for one or both of the terms in Equation 1). A simulation model must be 
"calibrated" so that it predicts an energy pattern that approximately matches actual metered 
data.   
Option D may be used to assess the performance of all ECMs in a facility, akin to Option C. 
However, the Option D simulation tool allows you to also estimate the savings attributable to 
each ECM within a multiple-ECM project.  
Option D may also be used to assess just the performance of individual systems within a facility, 
akin to Options A and B. In this case, the system’s energy use must be isolated from that of the 
rest of the facility by appropriate meters, as discussed in Chapters 4.5.1 and 4.7.  
Option D is useful where:  
 
Baseline energy data do not exist or are unavailable. Such situation may arise for: 
o A new construction project 
o A facility expansion needing to be assessed separately from the rest of the facility, or 
