 
Appendix A Examples         83 
 
transform energy measured at the library to its actual impact on the campus utility bills, the 
following assumptions were made: 
 
A pound of steam at the library requires 1.5 ft3 of natural gas at the campus heating plant’s 
gas meter. There is a fixed component in the gas use of the central plant, arising from the 
standing losses of the steam system. The 1.5 ft3 factor, an annual average of gas use per 
pound of steam produced, allocates a load-based share of this fixed component to the 
library.  
 
Electricity use at the library requires 3% more electricity at the campus electricity meter 
because of estimated campus transformer and distribution losses. 
 
Peak electric demand at the library is assumed to be coincident with the time of peak 
demand at the campus meter. 
The expected savings of the ECMs were predicted by computer simulation with the publicly 
available DOE 2.1 software. A full survey of the building’s systems and occupancy was needed 
to gather all the input data. The power requirements of five variable-air-volume air-handling 
systems were logged for one week to define some of the input data for this planning simulation. 
The simulation used long-term normal weather conditions and the occupancy and other building 
characteristics that prevailed at the time of the prediction. It was decided to report actual 
savings under the same conditions.  
The university’s gas supply contract has a marginal unit price of US$6.25/mcf.  It also has a 
minimum consumption level, which is only 5,300 mcf below the actual gas usage during the 
baseline period. If consumption drops by more than 5,300 mcf, the university will pay for the 
contract minimum amount. The contract will be renegotiated based on the results determined 
from this library project. The marginal electricity price at the campus meter is $0.18/kWh in peak 
periods, $0.05/kWh in off peak periods and demand is priced at $10.25/kW-month. 
Following the first year, the first year’s meter data will be used as a baseline for a new Option C 
approach for this building. 
Results  The following steps were used to compute savings. 
1. The new meters were calibrated and installed. Operating staff recorded monthly energy and 
demand for 12 months throughout the first year after ECM commissioning. 
2. Then the original planning simulation model was refined to match: the ECMs as installed, 
the weather, the occupancy, and the operating profiles of the reporting period. The resultant 
simulation of space temperatures and humidities were examined to ensure they reasonably 
matched the typical range of indoor conditions during occupied and unoccupied days. 
Initially the simulation result did not match actual energy use very well, so the M&V team 
investigated the site further. During these additional investigations the team found that 
unoccupied night periods experienced very little indoor temperature change. Therefore they 
changed the thermal-mass characteristics of the computer model. After this correction the 
modeled monthly results were compared to the monthly calibration data. The highest 
CV(RMSE) of the differences was 12%, on the electric demand meter. The university felt 
that because these CV(RMSE) values met ASHRAE (2002) specifications, it could have 
reasonable confidence in the relative results of two runs of the model.  Therefore this 
“calibrated as-built model” was archived, with both printed and electronic copy of input data, 
diagnostic reports and output data.  
3. The calibrated as-built model was then rerun with a weather-data file corresponding to the 
normal year.  Occupancy statistics and static factors were also reset to what had been 
observed during the baseline period. The resultant “post-retrofit normal-conditions 
model” was archived, with both printed and electronic copy of input data, diagnostic reports 
and output data.   
