 
44 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
 
Powertron Global believes they have a system to enhance metal surfaces, which 
improves heat transfer, prevent future fouling, reduce friction, increase component life 
and improve efficiency of the units.  This report evaluates their in-situ test program to 
determine if measurable improvements can be demonstrated.  This would benefit power 
providers if it was verified that the HVAC systems would operate more efficiently and 
reduce draw of power from the grid during peak periods.   
 
There are four questions to answer.  The first question is whether there is anything in 
PermaFrost NMR® that would reduce the refrigerant lubricating oil surface bonding, 
to allow it (the refrigeration oil) to be displaced by the PermaFrost NMR®.  The 
improvements in coil performance certainly suggest that any barrier to heat exchange 
was altered.  If no surface bonding alteration occurs, no improvement should be seen in 
the short term.  Improvements were seen in all systems, so something changed in 
the coils.   
 
The second question is whether the PermaFrost NMR® can adversely impact the 
refrigerant flow.  Stabilizing the metal surface and removal of refrigerant oil from the 
heat exchangers will reduce laminar friction and improve refrigerant flow.  The 
improvements measured at the tests included generally showed significant 
improvement in heat exchange and no adverse impact to refrigerant flow.  The oil 
analysis showing compatibility (no separation of the product) with all relevant 
components in extended tolerances suggest the product should not adversely impact 
flow in normal operating conditions. 
 
An accompanying question about product longevity inside a system has been asked, 
including one of the large utilities that currently provides rebates for PermaFrost 
NMR®.   An oil analysis in Appendix A shows all of the tests required to provide an 
answer.   
 
The focus of this report was the fourth question, whether the efficiency can be 
demonstrated under a series of conditions, both in-situ and controlled, and concurrently 
whether the appropriate data was gathered.  The International Performance 
Measurement and Verification Protocols (IPMVP), Retrofit Isolation (Option B) was 
the option used for this report. The Association of Energy Engineers (AEE), American 
Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), and The 
Efficiency Valuation Organization (EVO) accept the IPMVP as a global methodology 
for determining the effectiveness of energy conservation methods and products.  
 
The test protocol for the measuring site parameters before and after PermaFrost 
NMR® addition at in-situ test units appears to be in conformance with the standards set 
for such systems and appropriate efficiency measurements were taken.  It was 
recommended that a baseline for any of these tests allowed the equipment to run for a 
normal on/off cycling for a period of 15 to 20 days to allow for stabilization and steady 
state. Although performance changes may appear immediately, it takes approximately 
2-4 weeks for PermaFrost NMR® to properly travel throughout the hermetic circuit.  
