 
Appendix A Examples         81 
 
Assessment of 
Regression Analysis 
Good 
Good 
Good 
Marginal 
Regression Coefficients (where accepted):
Intercept 
446.73 
102,425 
 
HDD coefficient 
1.9788 
179.3916 
 
The regression statistics for the gas consumption and main electricity consumption show 
acceptable correlation with HDD as indicated by the high R2, and the HDD t-statistics being well 
above the critical IPMVP Table B-1 value of 1.89 for 8 data points and 90% confidence. These 
observations are logical since the primary use of gas is for building heating. There is also a 
significant amount of electric heat in the main building. 
The field house account showed a poor t-statistic and R2. The building has no installed heating 
but must be lit longer in months of less daylight, which are also colder months. Monthly 
electricity use could be expected to follow a reasonably regular annual pattern related to 
daylight hours and occupancy, not driven by ambient temperature. Therefore the minimal 
correlation of this meter with HDD is ignored, and there will be no weather adjustments made to 
it. Instead, each month’s savings report will take its baseline energy from the corresponding 
baseline month’s consumption, adjusting for the number of days in the reporting period. 
The main electrical-demand meter showed a poor correlation with the coldest day’s weather. 
Therefore each month’s savings report will take its baseline demand from the corresponding 
baseline month’s actual demand, without adjustment. 
 
The long term impact on savings reports of these regression statistics was analyzed. The 
relative precision in winter savings reports will be less than ±10% for gas and less than 
±20% for the main electricity account. The expected savings will be statistically significant 
for winter months since they will be more than twice the standard error of the baseline 
formulae (see criterion in Appendix B-1.2). The school officials felt comfortable with this 
expected quantified precision, and with possible unquantifiable errors related to simply 
adjusting for metering period lengths in months with 50 or fewer HDD.  
 
The utility rates to be used in valuing savings will be the then current full-price schedule 
appropriate for each account. 
Results  The reporting-period data for the first year was taken directly from utility bills without 
adjustment, and from government weather reports. This data and the calculations for the 
savings in energy and demand units, using Equation 1b), are shown on EVO’s website.   
Each month’s current utility rate schedule was applied to each account’s adjusted-baseline 
energy and reporting-period energy to compute savings. Since the gas rate changed in month 9 
and the electric rate changed in month 7, two different price schedules were used for each 
commodity during the 12-month savings report. These computations are also detailed on the 
EVO website.  
A-7.1  Whole-Facility Energy Accounting Relative To Budget 
Situation  The energy manager of a chain of hotels was required to annually prepare an energy 
budget, and routinely account for variances from budget. 
Factors Affecting M&V Design  Hotel guest-room occupancy, convention-area usage and 
weather significantly affect energy use.  In order to account for energy use, the energy manager 
realized she needed to use M&V style techniques to adjust for these significant factors. 
M&V Plan  The energy manager followed IPMVP Volume I, EVO 10000 – 1:2012, Option C, 
since she needed to explain budget variances in management accounting reports. She always 
