 
 
 
January 2012 
Dear Readers, 
 
As the world is coming to recognize that energy efficiency is foundational to good environmental 
management, the importance of proper savings documentation has never been greater. It is 
certainly in everyone’s interest that predicted savings are achieved and properly reported. 
Notably: 
 
energy users need to have robust methods of verifying achievement of their energy policy 
objectives, to get or maintain ISO 50001 certification for their management practices; 
 
potential purchasers of energy efficiency products or services want to know that their 
potential purchases have already proven themselves using widely recognized methods; 
 
actual purchasers of energy efficiency products or services need feedback on the 
effectiveness of their purchases, to help them fine tune performance and to inform further 
purchases; 
 
governments and utilities need to know that savings reported from energy efficiency 
programs are grounded in actual field-measured results following a widely accepted 
protocol. 
Basically, the knowledge that energy savings can be transparently reported is vital to the 
acceptance of energy efficiency proposals.  
 
EVO is the only organization dedicated to provision of tools for this purpose. This IPMVP, now 
in its seventh edition, defines transparency in savings reports, while assembling best 
practice from around the world. EVO also publishes the IEEFP (International Energy Efficiency 
Financing Protocol) to help energy efficiency investors indentify and invest in well managed 
energy cost saving projects. 
 
IPMVP’s flexible framework of M&V Options allows practitioners to craft the right M&V Plan for 
their building or industrial facility, inspiring confidence in those who wish to harvest their 
financial and/or environmental benefits. Clear definition of terms, and heavy emphasis on 
consistent and transparent methods are the core precepts of the IPMVP. Though application 
details are unique to each project, IPMVP’s flexible framework has been successfully applied to 
all types of energy efficiency techniques, for thousands of projects and programs, large and 
small, around the world.  
 
IPMVP is the work of numerous volunteers and sponsors, listed herein and in previous editions. 
I would like to thank all those shown in the Acknowledgments section herein. You can join this 
truly unique group of professionals by submitting comments, joining an EVO committee, or 
supporting the movement by subscribing to EVO. I encourage all readers to provide feedback, 
so we can continuously improve the IPMVP (email to: ipmvprev@evo-world.org). 
 
John Cowan 
Chair of the Board 
Toronto, Canada 
