 
Other Common M&V Issues       41 
 
CHAPTER 8   OTHER COMMON M&V  Facilities Services ProviderUES 
Beyond the basic framework described in Chapter 4, there are a number of issues which 
commonly arise regardless of the IPMVP Option chosen. Each of these issues is discussed in 
this Chapter.  
8.1  Applying Energy Prices  
Cost savings15 are determined by applying the appropriate price schedule in the following 
equation: 
 
Cost Savings = Cb – Cr 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2) 
 
Where: 
 
Cb = Cost of the baseline energy plus any adjustments16  
Cr = Cost of the reporting period energy plus any adjustments 
 
Costs should be determined by applying the same price schedule in computing both Cb and Cr.  
When the conditions of the reporting period are used as the basis for reporting energy savings 
(i.e. avoided energy use Chapter 4.6.1), the price schedule of the reporting period is normally 
used to compute “avoided cost.”  
Examples of the application of energy prices are contained in the examples of Appendix A. 
8.1.1 Price Schedules 
The price schedule should be obtained from the energy supplier. This price schedule should 
include all elements that are affected by metered amounts, such as consumption charges, 
demand charges, transformer credits, power factor, demand ratchets, fuel price adjustments, 
early payment discounts and taxes.  
Price schedules may change at points in time different from meter reading dates. Therefore, Cb 
and Cr in Equation 2) should be computed for periods exactly aligned with price change dates. 
This alignment may require an estimated allocation of quantities to periods before and after the 
price change date. The allocation methodology should be the same as that used by the energy 
supplier. 
The selected price schedule may be fixed at the date of ECM installation, or changed as prices 
change. (Increasing prices will shorten the ECM payback period. Decreasing prices will 
lengthen the payback period though total energy costs will drop when prices drop.) Where a 
third party has invested in an owner’s facility, the price schedule for savings reporting is not 
normally allowed to drop below that which prevailed at the time of commitment to the 
investment. 
                                                  
15 See Chapter 9 for the definition of “savings.” See also Chapter 4.6 for discussion of the 
difference between energy savings and avoided energy or normalized savings. The same 
discussion applies to the difference between cost savings and cost avoidance or normalized cost 
savings. 
16 Adjustments are the appropriate ones described in Chapter 4. 
