70        Appendix A Examples 
 
Using the same estimated operating periods, the owner’s estimated savings under normal 
rainfall conditions and at current utility prices were determined to be 34 kW × 3,932 hr25 x 
R0.2566/kWh = R34,000/year.26 Utility service and network charges were unchanged. 
A-2.1  Pump/Motor Demand Shifting – Option B 
Situation  The irrigation system described in Appendix A-2 above was also eligible for a 
substantial utility incentive if the pumps are kept off during the peak periods of 0700-1000 and 
1800-2000 on all weekdays that are not public holidays. The owner installed a radio-signal-
based control system to remotely and automatically control the pumps to implement this load 
shifting strategy. The pump control will be reset by the owner annually according to the 
upcoming year’s schedule of public holidays. 
Factors Affecting the M&V Design  The owner believed that curtailing pumping for a 
maximum of 25 hours per week (15%) would not be critical to his operation in dry seasons. (He 
expected fewer breakdowns of the new pumps, so there would be no net impact on his dry-
season growth.) 
The utility recognizes that the owner decides whether to shut down the pumps based on his own 
needs. Therefore the utility required adherence to IPMVP Volume I, EVO 10000 – 1:2012, 
Option B to substantiate each year’s performance, before making the incentive payment.  
The owner felt that his financial payback period for the control and monitoring equipment was 
already long. Therefore he does not want to spend a significant part of the incentive on 
providing the evidence required by the utility.   
M&V Plan  The utility and owner agreed that continuous recording of a proxy variable would 
give the ongoing evidence that the pumps were off during every peak period all year long.  The 
proxy variable is the presence of electricity flow (in excess of the 500mA needed by the control 
equipment) through any of the 5 electrical feeds to the 10 pumps. Small un-calibrated current 
sensors and data loggers were clamped on each power line near the 5 meters. The sensors and 
loggers have a re-chargeable battery-backup power system.  
The owner has hired the supplier of the control and monitoring devices to annually read the 
data, check the clock settings, and give a report to the utility of the dates and times of any 
operation within any weekday peak periods.   
Results  For the first year after implementation of the control and monitoring system, the 
monitoring agent reported to the utility that power was used between 1800 hrs and 2000 hrs on 
5 specific weekdays. The utility verified that these days were all public holidays, so there were 
no operations during the defined peak periods. The demand shift was determined to be 98.2 
kW, from the measurement of the new pumps (see Appendix A-2). The annual utility incentive 
was computed and paid based on this Option B recorded 98.2 kW demand shift.
A-3  Lighting Efficiency – Option A 
Situation  More efficient light fixtures are installed in place of existing fixtures in a Canadian 
school, while maintaining light levels. This project was part of a broader program of the school 
board to hire a contractor, who would design, install and finance many changes in a number of 
schools. Payments under the contract are based on measured savings at the utility prices 
prevailing at the time of signing the contract. Savings are to be demonstrated, according to an 
IPMVP adherent M&V Plan, immediately after commissioning of the retrofit. Since the owner 
controls operation of the lights, the contract specified that the M&V Plan follow IPMVP Volume I, 
                                                  
25 133,688 is the actual calculated value before significant digit rounding. 
26 This amount can be expressed in no more than 2 significant digits, as from the above observations about the 
minimum number of significant digits. The actual calculated value is R34,103 and should better be expressed as R3.4 
x 104, though 34,000 is customary currency format. 
