104        Appendix B Uncertainty 
 
Determination of energy savings requires estimating a difference in energy levels, rather than 
simply measuring the level of energy itself. In general, calculating a difference to suit a Retail Chain A 
relative precision criterion requires better absolute precision in the component measurements 
than the absolute precision required of the difference. For example, suppose the average load is 
around 500 kW, and the anticipated savings are around 100 kW. A ±10% error with 90% 
confidence (“90/10”) criterion can be applied two ways: 
 
If applied to the load measurements, absolute precision must be 50 kW (10% of 500 kW) at 
90% confidence.  
 
If applied to the reported savings, absolute precision in the savings must be 10 kW (10% of 
100 kW) at the same 90% confidence level. To achieve this 10 kW absolute precision in 
reported savings requires component measurement absolute precisions of 7 kW (using 
Equation B-19, if both components are to have the same precision).  
Clearly the application of the 90/10 confidence/precision criterion at the level of the savings 
requires much more precision in the load measurement than a 90/10 requirement at the level of 
the load. 
The precision criterion may be applied not only to energy savings, but also to parameters that 
determine savings. For example, suppose the savings amount is the product of the number (N) 
of units, hours (H) of operation, and change (C) in watts:  Savings = N x H x C. The 90/10 
criterion could be applied separately to each of these parameters. However, achieving 90/10 
precision for each of these parameters separately does not imply that 90/10 is achieved for the 
savings, which is the parameter of ultimate interest. In fact using Equation B-20, the precision at 
90% confidence would only be ±17%. On the other hand, if the number of units and change in 
watts are assumed to be known without error, 90/10 precision for hours implies 90/10 precision 
for savings. 
The precision standard could be imposed at various levels. The choice of level of 
disaggregation dramatically affects the M&V design and associated costs. In general, data 
collection requirements increase if precision requirements are imposed on each component. If 
the primary goal is to control savings precision for a project as a whole, it is not necessary to 
impose the same precision requirement on each component.   
B-6   Example Uncertainty Analysis 
To illustrate the use of the various statistical tools for uncertainty analysis, Table B-3 shows an 
example spreadsheet regression model output. It is a regression of a building’s 12 monthly 
electric-utility consumption-meter values and cooling degree days (CDD) over a one-year 
period. This is just a partial spreadsheet output. Specific values of interest are highlighted in 
italics. 
