 
Appendix B Uncertainty         99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
67
1.0
5.0
64
.1
2
2
2



on
 
 
In some cases (e.g., metering of lighting hours or use), it may be desirable to initially 
conduct a small sample for the sole purpose of estimating a cv value to assist in planning 
the sampling program. Also values from previous M&V work may be used as appropriate 
initial estimates of cv.  
5. Adjust initial sample size estimate for small populations. The necessary sample size 
can be reduced if the entire population being sampled is no more than 20 times the size of 
the sample. For the initial sample size example, above, (no = 67), if the population (N) from 
which it is being sampled is only 200, the population is only 3 times the size of the sample. 
Therefore the “Finite Population Adjustment” can be applied. This adjustment reduces the 
sample size (n) as follows:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
n
N
n
n


0
0
 
 
 
B-17 
 
 
Applying this finite population adjustment to the above example reduces the sample size (n) 
required to meet the 90%/±10% criterion to 50. See an example use of this adjustment in 
Appendix A-3-1. 
6. Finalize Sample Size.  Because the initial sample size (no) is determined using an assumed 
cv, it is critical to remember that the actual cv of the population being sampled may be 
different. Therefore a different actual sample size may be needed to meet the precision 
criterion. If the actual cv turns out to be less than the initial assumption in step 4, the 
required sample size will be unnecessarily large to meet the precision goals. If the actual cv 
turns out to be larger than assumed, then the precision goal will not be met unless the 
sample size increases beyond the value computed by Equations B-16 and B-17.  
As sampling continues, the mean and standard deviation of the readings should be 
computed. The actual cv and required sample size (Equations B-16 and B-17) should be re-
computed. This re-computation may allow early curtailment of the sampling process. It may 
also lead to a requirement to conduct more sampling than originally planned. To maintain 
M&V costs within budget it may be appropriate to establish a maximum sample size. If this 
maximum is actually reached after the above re-computations, the savings report(s) should 
note the actual precision achieved by the sampling.  
B-4   Metering  
Energy quantities and independent variables are often measured as part of an M&V program, 
using meters. No meter is 100% accurate, though more sophisticated meters may increase the 
accuracy towards 100%. The accuracy of selected meters is published by the meter 
manufacturer, from laboratory tests. Proper meter sizing, for the range of possible quantities to 
be measured, ensures that collected data fall within known and acceptable error limits (or 
precision). 
Manufacturers typically rate precision as either a fraction of the current reading or as a fraction 
of the maximum reading on the meter’s scale. In this latter case it is important to consider where 
the typical readings fall on the meter’s scale before computing the precision of typical readings. 
