120        Appendix D Users of IPMVP 
 
D-5   New Building Designers  
New building investors often wish to compare their performance to what it would have been if 
they had not included some specific energy efficiency features in the design. The absence of 
real baseline data normally requires the use of Option D (Chapter 4.10) to develop a baseline. 
The computer simulation skills needed to properly apply Option D might normally be on the 
design team at the time of design. However the critical element of Option D is the calibration of 
the simulation against data gathered after a one-year period. Therefore it is important to ensure 
that the simulation skills remain available until calibration is achieved. 
Following the first year of steady operation it would be normal to use the actual energy data of 
the first steady year as a new baseline, switching to using Option C (Chapter 4.9) to determine 
changes from the first year’s new baseline. 
All the challenges for new buildings are addressed in more depth in IPMVP Volume III Part I, 
New Construction, including different methods for special situations. 
D-6   New Building Designers Seeking Recognition for Their Sustainable 
Designs 
Building designers may seek to have their designs recognized under a sustainable design 
program. To qualify, the building may need to have an M&V system that adheres to IPMVP. 
IPMVP adherence is defined in Chapter 7 as preparation of an M&V Plan (Chapter 5) using 
IPMVP terminology, and then following the M&V Plan.   
The designer would also follow the guidance above in Chapter 1.4.5 and IPMVP Volume III Part 
I. 
D-7   Existing Building Managers Seeking Recognition for the 
Environmental Quality of their Building Operations 
Managers of existing buildings may seek recognition for the environmental quality of their 
operating methods. To qualify they may need to have an M&V system that adheres to IPMVP. 
IPMVP adherence is defined in Chapter 7 as preparation of an M&V Plan (Chapter 5) using 
IPMVP terminology and then following the M&V Plan. IPMVP’s Retrofit Isolation type M&V 
(Chapter 4.8) may also assist in obtaining recogntion for the number of installed sub-meters. 
Option C (Chapter 4.9) would provide the total facility performance monitoring that is 
appropriate to existing buildings. However if no whole building meters existed before seeking 
recogntion, Option D (Chapter 4.10) is needed during the period of developing a baseline for a 
year after main meters are initially installed on the building. 
Building managers would also follow the guidance above in Chapter 1.4.3. 
D-8   Regional Efficiency-Program Designers and Managers   
Designers and managers of regional or utility-company demand-side-management (DSM) 
programs usually need to develop rigorous ways to evaluate the effectiveness of their energy-
efficiency programs. One way to evaluate a DSM program’s impact is to assess the savings 
made in randomly chosen end-user facilities. This data can be used to project the results across 
the entire group of DSM program participants. Use IPMVP Options presented in Chapter 4 to 
assess the savings in the sample facilities.  
The evaluation design for any regional program should specify which of the IPMVP Options are 
allowable. It should also specify the minimum required sampling, measurement, and analytical 
accuracies, in order to provide sufficient rigor in program reporting.  
