20        IPMVP Framework and Options 
 
an industrial plant provide a common example of constant power flow, assuming they have a 
constant load. However motor-operating periods may vary with the type of product being 
produced from day to day. Where a parameter may change periodically, the occasional 
measurements of the parameter (operating hours in this motor example) should happen at times 
representative of the normal system behavior.  
Where a parameter may vary daily or hourly, as in most building heating or cooling systems, 
continuous metering may be simplest. For weather dependent loads, measurements may be 
taken over a long enough period to adequately characterize the load pattern through all parts of 
its normal annual cycle (i.e. each season, and weekday/weekend) and repeated as necessary 
through the reporting period. Examples of such day-type profiling can be found in Katipamula 
and Haberl (1991), Akbari et al. (1988), Hadley and Tomich (1986), Bou Saada and Haberl 
(1995a, 1995b) and Bou Saada et al. (1996).  
Where multiple versions of the same ECM installation are included within the measurement 
boundary, statistically valid samples may be used as valid measurements of the total parameter. 
Such situations may arise, for example, where total lighting power draw cannot be read at the 
electrical panel due to the presence of non-lighting loads on the same panel. Instead a 
statistically significant sample of fixtures is measured before and after retrofit to assess the 
change in power draw. These sample data may be used as the ‘measurements’ of total lighting 
power draw. Appendix B-3 discusses the statistical issues involved in sampling. 
Portable meters may be used if only short-term metering is needed. The costs of portable 
meters can be shared with other objectives. However, permanently installed meters also provide 
feedback to operating staff or automated control equipment for optimization of systems. Added 
meters may also enable billing of individual users or departments in the facility.   
Retrofit isolation techniques are best applied where:  
 
Only the performance of the systems affected by the ECM is of concern, either due to the 
responsibilities assigned to the parties in an energy performance contract, or due to the 
savings of the ECM being too small to be detected in the time available using Option C.  
 
Interactive effects of the ECM on the energy use of other facility equipment can be 
reasonably estimated, or assumed to be insignificant.  
 
Possible changes to the facility, beyond the measurement boundary, would be difficult to 
identify or assess.  
 
The independent variables, which affect energy use, are not excessively difficult or 
expensive to monitor.  
 
Sub-meters already exist to isolate energy use of systems.  
 
Meters added at the measurement boundary can be used for other purposes such as 
operational feedback or tenant billing.  
 
Measurement of parameters is less costly than Option D simulations or Option C non-routine 
adjustments. 
 
Long term testing is not warranted. 
 
There is no need to directly reconcile savings reports with changes in payments to energy 
suppliers. 
The unique characteristics of each of the retrofit-isolation techniques are discussed in Chapters 
4.7.1 and 4.7.2, below. Common measurement issues arising when using retrofit-isolation 
techniques are discussed in Chapter 4.8.3..  
