100        Appendix B Uncertainty 
 
Over-sizing of meters whose precision is stated relative to maximum reading will significantly 
reduce the precision of the actual metering. 
The readings of many meter systems will ‘drift’ over time due to mechanical wear. Periodic re-
calibration against a known standard is required to adjust for this drift. It is important to maintain 
the precision of meters in the field through routine maintenance, and calibration against known 
standards.  
In addition to accuracy of the meter element itself, other possibly unknown effects can reduce 
meter system precision:   
 
poor placement of the meter so it does not get a representative ‘view’ of the quantity it is 
supposed to measure (e.g., a fluid flow meter’s readings are affected by proximity to an 
elbow in the pipe) 
 
data telemetry errors which randomly or systematically clip off meter data 
As a result of such unquantifiable metering errors, it is important to realize that manufacturer-
quoted precision probably overstates the precision of the actual readings in the field. However 
there is no way to quantify these other effects. 
Manufacturer precision statements should be in accordance with the relevant industry standard 
for their product. Care should be taken to determine the confidence level used in quoting a 
meter’s precision. Unless stated otherwise, the confidence is likely to be 95%.  
When a single measurement is used in a savings computation, rather than the mean of several 
measurements, the methods of Appendix B-5 are used to combine uncertainties of several 
components. The standard error of the measured value is: 
 
 
 
 
t
value
measured
precision
relative
meter
SE


 
B-18 
 
Where t is based on the large sampling done by the meter manufacturer when developing its 
relative precision statement. Therefore the Table B-1 value of t should be for infinite sample 
sizes. 
When making multiple readings with a meter, the observed values contain both meter error and 
variations in the phenomenon being measured. The mean of the readings likewise contains both 
effects. The standard error of the estimated mean value of the measurements is found using 
equation B-4.  
Chapters 4.8.3 and 8.11 further discuss metering and provide references to other useful 
readings on metering.  
B-5   Combining Components of Uncertainty 
Both the measurement and adjustment components in Equation 1 of Chapter 4 can introduce 
uncertainty in reporting savings. The uncertainties in the individual components can be 
combined to enable overall statements of savings’ uncertainty. This combination can be 
performed by expressing the uncertainty of each component in terms of its standard error.  
The components must be independent to use the following methods for combining uncertainties. 
Independence means that whatever random errors affect one of the components are unrelated 
to the errors affecting other components.  
If the reported savings is the sum or difference of several independently determined 
components (C) (i.e., 
p
C
C
C
Savings




...
2
1
), then the standard error of the reported 
savings can be estimated by: 
