viii        Preface 
 
PREFACE 
Outline Of This Document 
The International Performance Measurement and Verification Protocol (IPMVP) Volume I is a 
guidance document describing common practice in measuring, computing and reporting savings 
achieved by energy or water efficiency projects at end user facilities. The IPMVP presents a 
framework and four measurement and verification (M&V) Options for transparently, reliably and 
consistently reporting a project’s saving. M&V activities include site surveys, metering of energy 
or water flow(s), monitoring of independent variable(s), calculation, and reporting. When 
adhering to IPMVP’s recommendations, these M&V activities can produce verifiable savings 
reports. 
The IPMVP is intended to be used by professionals as a basis for preparing savings reports. 
Each user must establish its own specific M&V Plan that addresses the unique characteristics of 
the project. The IPMVP is not a standard and thus there is no formal compliance mechanism for 
this document. Adherence with the IPMVP requires preparation of a project specific M&V Plan 
that is consistent with IPMVP terminology. It must name the IPMVP Option(s) to be used, 
metering monitoring and analysis methods to be used, quality assurance procedures to be 
followed, and person(s) responsible for the M&V. 
IPMVP Volume I Chapters are organized as follows: 
1. Introduces IPMVP and EVO.  
2. Defines M&V, and lists eight uses for M&V techniques.  
3. Lays the foundation of M&V by defining the underlying Principles of good M&V. The 
balance of the document summarizes common industry methods for implementing these 
fundamental Principles. 
4. Defines the IPMVP Framework and its four Options. It presents the basic methodologies 
and adjustments to energy or water measurements needed to properly report savings. 
Tables 2 and 4, and Figure 4 summarize the Options and offer guidance in choosing 
amongst them for each application. 
5. Lists the topics that should be contained in an M&V Plan and gives guidance on design 
decisions needed to make the M&V activity cost effective for all users of the savings 
reports. 
6. Defines a means of specifying the use of IPMVP and of claiming adherence with it. 
7. Presents key information that should be included in each savings report. 
8. Lists many additional issues that commonly arise in M&V design or reporting. 
9. Lists definitions of all italicized words in the document.  
10. Provides a list of references and some useful other resources. 
Appendix A provides 12 example applications of IPMVP, in varying levels of detail. It refers to 
EVO’s website for detailed examples of M&V Plans and Savings Reports. 
Appendix B summarizes basic uncertainty quantification techniques to guide decisions about 
the level of rigour suitable for each M&V process.  
Appendix C contains region-specific materials for the United States of America, France, Spain 
(incl. Catalonia), Romania, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Croatia and Poland. 
Appendix D is a Users Guide to help different types of readers understand common ways of 
applying the document 
