 
IPMVP Framework and Options       29 
 
o A centrally metered campus of facilities where no individual facility meter exists in the 
baseline period, but where individual meters will be available after ECM installation.  
 
Reporting-period energy data are unavailable or obscured by factors that are difficult to 
quantify. Sometimes it is too difficult to predict how future facility changes might affect 
energy use. Industrial-process changes or new equipment often make the computation of 
non-routine adjustments so inaccurate that Options A, B or C would create excessive error 
in the savings determination.  
 
It is desired to determine the savings associated with individual ECMs, but measurements 
with Options A or B are too difficult or costly.   
If the reporting-period energy is predicted by the simulation software, the determined savings 
persist only if the simulated operating methods continue. Periodic inspections will identify 
changes from baseline conditions and modeled equipment performance (see also Chapter 
4.7.1. Option A Installation Verification). Simulation runs should be adjusted accordingly.  
Option D is the primary M&V approach for assessing energy efficiency inclusions in new facility 
designs. The IPMVP Volume III Part I, titled “Concepts and Options for Determining Savings In 
New Construction”, provides guidance on a variety of M&V techniques applicable to new 
buildings.  
Accurate computer modeling and calibration to measured energy data are the major challenges 
associated with Option D. To control the costs of this method while maintaining reasonable 
accuracy, the following points should be considered when using Option D:  
 
Simulation analysis should be conducted by trained personnel who are experienced with 
both the software and the calibration techniques.  
 
Input data should represent the best available information including as much as possible of 
available actual performance data from key components in the facility 
 
The simulation inputs need to be adjusted so its results match both the demand and 
consumption data from monthly utility bills, within acceptable tolerances (i.e. "calibrated"). 
Close agreement between predicted and actual annual total energy is usually insufficient 
demonstration that the simulation adequately predicts the energy behavior of the facility 
(See Chapter 4.9.2). 
 
Option D requires careful documentation. Simulation printouts, survey data and the metering 
or monitoring data used to define input values and calibrate the simulation model should be 
kept in paper and electronic files. The version number should be declared of publicly 
available software, so that another person can review the computations.  
 
For new construction projects, modeling efforts can be streamlined by retaining the buildng 
energy modeler that created the “as-designed” model to create the calibrated, “as-built” and 
adjusted baseline models. 
 
Building types which are not easily simulated include those with:  
 
large atriums,  
 
a significant fraction of the space underground or ground coupled,  
 
unusual exterior shapes,  
 
complex shading configurations, or 
 
a large number of distinct zones of temperature control.  
Some building ECMs cannot be simulated without great difficulty, such as:  
 
addition of radiant barriers in attics, and  
