 
IPMVP Framework and Options       11 
 
Some of the energy requirements of the systems or equipment being assessed may arise 
outside a practical measurement boundary. Nevertheless, all energy effects of the ECM(s) 
should be considered. Those energy effects that are significant should be determined from 
measurements, the rest being estimated or ignored.  
Any energy effects occurring beyond the notional measurement boundary are called ‘interactive 
effects’8. Find a way to estimate the magnitude of these interactive effects in order to determine 
savings. Alternatively they may be ignored as long as the M&V Plan includes discussion of each 
effect and its likely magnitude. 
4.5.2  Measurement Period Selection 
Care should be taken in selecting the period of time to be used as the baseline period and the 
reporting period. Strategies for each are discussed below. 
Baseline Period 
The baseline period should be established to: 
 
Represent all operating modes of the facility. This period should span a full operating cycle 
from maximum energy use to minimum.   
 
 
 
 
Fairly represent all operating conditions of a normal operating cycle. For example, though a 
year may be chosen as the baseline period, if data is missing during the selected year for 
one month, comparable data for the same month in a different year should be used to 
ensure the baseline record does not under represent operating conditions of the missing 
month.   
 
Include only time periods for which all fixed and variable energy-governing facts are known 
about the facility. Extension of baseline periods backwards in time to include multiple cycles 
of operation requires equal knowledge of all energy-governing factors throughout the longer 
baseline period in order to properly derive routine and non-routine adjustments (see Chapter 
4.6) after ECM installation. 
 
Coincide with the period immediately before commitment to undertake the retrofit. Periods 
further back in time would not reflect the conditions existing before retrofit and may therefore 
not provide a proper baseline for measuring the effect of just the ECM. 
ECM planning may require study of a longer time period than is chosen for the baseline period. 
Longer study periods assist the planner in understanding facility performance and determining 
what the normal cycle length actually is. 
                                                  
8 These interactive effects are sometimes called ‘leakages.’ 
 
Whole-building energy use can be significantly affected by weather conditions. 
Typically, a whole year of baseline data is needed to define a full operating 
cycle. 
 
 
The energy use of a compressed air system may only be governed by plant 
production levels, which vary on a weekly cycle. So one week’s data may be 
all that is needed to define baseline performance. 
