 
IPMVP Framework and Options       7 
 
CHAPTER 4   IPMVP FRAMEWORK AND OPTIONS  
4.1  Introduction 
Energy, water or demand savings6 cannot be directly measured, since savings represent the 
absence of energy/water use or demand. Instead, savings are determined by comparing 
measured use or demand before and after implementation of a program, making suitable 
adjustments for changes in conditions.   
 
Time
Energy Use
Reporting Period 
Measured Energy
Adjusted 
Baseline 
Energy
ECM 
Installation
Baseline 
Energy
Reporting 
Period
Baseline 
Period
SavingS,  or 
avoidEd EnErgy USE
Inreased 
Production
 
As an example of savings determination process, Figure 2 shows the energy-usage history of  
an industrial boiler before and after the addition of an energy conservation measure (ECM) to 
recover heat from its flue gases. At about the time of ECM installation, plant production also 
increased.  
To properly document the impact of the ECM, its energy effect must be separated from the 
energy effect of the increased production. The “baseline energy” use pattern before ECM 
installation was studied to determine the relationship between energy use and production. 
Following ECM installation, this baseline relationship was used to estimate how much energy 
the plant would have used each month if there had been no ECM (called the “adjusted-baseline 
energy”). The saving, or ‘avoided energy use’ is the difference between the adjusted-baseline 
energy and the energy that was actually metered during the reporting period.  
Without the adjustment for the change in production, the difference between baseline energy 
and reporting period energy would have been much lower, under-reporting the effect of the heat 
recovery. 
It is necessary to segregate the energy effects of a savings program from the effects of other 
simultaneous changes affecting the energy using systems. The comparison of before and after 
energy use or demand should be made on a consistent basis, using the following general 
Equation 1):  
 
                                                  
6 Words in italics have the special meanings defined in Chapter 9. 
 
Figure 2  Example Energy 
History 
