 
Appendix D Users of IPMVP         117 
 
 
APPENDIX D   USERS  OF IPMVP  
Though the application of IPMVP is unique to each project, certain types of users will have 
similar methods in their M&V Plans and implementation. This appendix outlines some of the key 
ways this document may be used by the following user groups: 
 
Energy performance contractors and their building customers  
 
Energy performance contractors and their industrial process customers  
 
Energy users doing their own retrofits and wanting to account for savings 
 
Facility managers properly accounting for energy budget variances 
 
New building designers  
 
New building designers seeking recognition for the sustainability of their designs  
 
Existing building managers seeking recognition for the environmnetal quality of their building 
operations 
 
Utility demand side management program designers and managers 
 
Water efficiency project developers 
 
Emission reduction trading program designers 
 
Energy user’s seeking ISO 50001 certification 
This Appendix uses terms explained in Volume I Chapters as noted in brackets, or as defined in 
Chapter 9 for italicized words. 
D-1    Energy-Performance Contractors and Their Building Customers 
The primary purpose of M&V in the context of building energy-performance contracts is 
presenting the actual monetary performance of a retrofit project. The M&V Plan becomes part of 
the energy-performance contract’s terms, and defines the measurements and computations to 
determine payments or demonstrate compliance with a guaranteed level of performance. 
M&V costs may be controlled by considering the responsibilities of all parties to the contract. 
Where some parameters can be estimated with accuracy sufficient for all parties, Option A 
(Chapter 4.8.1) may be most economical. For example, a contractor undertaking to improve the 
efficiency of a chiller plant may simply be required to demonstrate the before and after retrofit 
chiller efficiency, without consideration of the ongoing energy use, which is driven by cooling 
loads that are not the contractor’s responsibility. However if the contractor agrees to reduce 
chiller plant energy use, comparison of before and after chiller plant energy use would be 
required. In this latter case Option B (Chapter 4.8.2) would be used if chiller plant energy meters 
are used, or Option C (Chapter 4.9) if whole facility (utility) meters are used to measure total 
building energy performance. 
Where the energy-performance contract focuses on total facility performance, or where it is 
difficult to evaluate the effects or several ECMs, Option C would be used. Care should be taken 
to ensure that the M&V Plan (Chapter 5) lists baseline static factors and assigns responsibility 
for their monitoring throughout the reporting period. However for new construction, Option D 
would be used (Chapter 4.10 or IPMVP Volume III Part I). Where central metering exists on a 
multiple building campus and no individual building meters are yet in place, Option D (Chapter 
4.10) can be used, so that the retrofit does not have to be held up to obtain new sub-meter 
baseline data for a year before planning the retrofit. 
Measurements may be made throughout the term of the energy-performance contract or for a 
contract defined test period shortly after retrofit. The longer the reporting period (Chapter 4.5.2), 
