98        Appendix B Uncertainty 
 
different types of units in the population, they should be grouped and sampled separately. 
For example, when designing a sampling program to measure the operating periods of room 
lighting controlled by occupancy sensors, rooms occupied more or less continuously (e.g., 
multiple person offices) should be separately sampled from those which are only 
occasionally occupied (e.g., meeting rooms). 
2. Determine the desired precision and confidence levels for the estimate (e.g., hours of 
use) to be reported. Precision refers to the error bound around the true estimate (i.e., ±x% 
range around the estimate). Higher precision requires larger sample. Confidence refers to 
the probability that the estimate will fall in the range of precision (i.e., the probability that the 
estimate will indeed fall in the ±x% range defined by the precision statement). Higher 
probability also requires larger samples. For example, if you want 90% confidence and 
±10% precision, you mean that the range defined for the estimate (±10%) will contain the 
true value for the whole group (which is not observed) with a probability of 90%. As an 
example, in estimating the lighting hours at a facility, it was decided to use sampling 
because it was too expensive to measure the operating hours of all lighting circuits. 
Metering a sample of circuits provided an estimate of the true operating hours. To meet a  
90/10 uncertainty criterion (confidence and precision) the sample size is determined such 
that, once the operating hours are estimated by sampling, the range of sample estimate 
(±10%) has to have a 90% chance of capturing the true hours of use .  
The conventional approach is to design sampling to achieve a 90% confidence level and 
±10% precision. However, the M&V Plan needs to consider the limits created by the budget 
(see Chapter 8.5). Improving precision from say ±20% to ±10% will increase sample size by 
4 times, while improving it to ±2% will increase sample size by 100 times. (This is a result of 
the sample error being inversely proportional to
n .) Selecting the appropriate sampling 
criteria requires balancing accuracy requirements with M&V costs.  
3. Decide on the level of disaggregation. Establish whether the confidence and precision 
level criteria should be applied to the measurement of all components, or to various sub-
groups of components. See Appendix B-5.2. Review the precision and confidence criteria 
chosen in 2.  
4. Calculate Initial Sample Size. Based on the information above, an initial estimate of the 
overall sample size can be determined using the following equation: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
2
2
0
*
e
cv
z
n 
  
 
                                     
B-16 
 
 
where: 
 
no  
is the initial estimate of the required sample size, before sampling begins  
 
cv  
is the coefficient of variance, defined as the standard deviation of the readings 
divided by the mean. Until the actual mean and standard deviation of the population can 
be estimated from actual samples, 0.5 may be used as an initial estimate for cv.  
 
e  
is the desired level of precision. 
 
z  
is the standard normal distribution value from Table B-1, with an infinite number 
of readings, and for the desired confidence level. For example z is 1.96 for a 95% 
confidence level (1.64 for 90%, 1.28 for 80%, and 0.67 for 50% confidence).   
For example, for 90% confidence with 10% precision, and a cv of 0.5, the initial 
estimate of required sample size (no) is 
 
