 
6
the ambient temperature outside the building and also independent of the actual temperatures of 
the room itself. 
 
Airflow:  Airflow is required to circulate the Btu’s around. Most equipment requires 400 cu.ft. 
of air through the system in a minute in cooling mode, plus or minus 10%, or 360 to 440 CFM 
per ton of cooling. Below 360 CFM/Ton, the heat transfer through the coil reduces rapidly. The 
airflow through the system is all that really counts. It should match the airflow over the coil, 
minus a few CFM for duct airflow loss, which is an unfortunate reality to some degree in nearly 
every system.  Airflow over the indoor coil should be verified and never ignored. 
 
Static Pressure:  Nearly every installation instruction requires the measurement of total external 
static pressure at startup. This reading is used to plot airflow on the fan tables provided, with 
each system using a fan to verify that the proper amount of airflow is being delivered through the 
system. About 50% of the available equipment out there is rated at 0.50-in. maximum total 
eternal static pressure. Most variable speed fans are rated from 0.90-in. to 1.2-in. available fan 
pressure.  Design practical standards ideally limit pressure drop over the coil to 40% of the rated 
equipment static pressure. Pressure drop over the filter is recommended to remain below 20% of 
the equipment pressure. This leaves 40% of the available pressure for the duct system. The live 
total external static pressure after a system is built is the real test of system performance from a 
pressure perspective. 
 
 
What to Calculate 
 
Calculating Gains in Efficiency:  By measuring the wet bulb temperature before and after the 
evaporator of an air conditioning system, the total heat load (enthalpy) in the air before and after 
the evaporator can be determined. The difference is the heat that is removed by the evaporator 
and therefore the heat that is removed by the air conditioning system. If the heat removed by the 
air conditioning system is calculated before and after treatment with PermaFrost NMR®, the 
change of the system’s efficiency can be accurately quantified. This calculation can be made 
even if the ambient conditions are different when the first measurement is made and the second 
measurement is made.  Calculating the change in enthalpy allows regression using standard 
industry accepted models and therefore is not necessary to attempt to control or replicate the 
various ambient conditions.  The airflow and voltage were measured before and after although it 
is generally it is assumed that the air flow and voltage is constant in the HVAC system.  This is a 
valid assumption under most circumstances but measured for each of these tests. 
 
BTU Delivery:  Total heat removed by a cooling system can be measured. To do so requires a 
very high quality psychrometer that measures wet bulb temperatures with extreme accuracy. It’s 
the wet bulb temperature (the measures of both heat and humidity) that enables us to measure 
total Btu. 
 
The formula that guides this test is timeless. It is simply CFM x Delta-T of the enthalpy derived 
from the entering air wet bulb temperature and the leaving air temperature x 4.5. In other words, 
total BTU equals delivered airflow (CFM) times the change in temperature and moisture content 
of the air through the system (Delta-T of E), times the constant of 4.5.  Taking accurate wet bulb 
readings and converting the values to enthalpy easily and accurately measure the Delta-T of E 
through the system. Subtract the enthalpy readings to find the Delta-T of E. 
