52        Other Common M&V Issues 
 
8.11.2 Use of Control Systems for Data Collection 
A computerized control system can provide much of the monitoring necessary for data 
collection.  However, the system’s hardware and software must be capable of performing 
control and data gathering simultaneously, without slowing computer processing, consuming 
excess communication bandwidth, or overfilling storage.  
Some measured parameters may not be useful for control: electric power metering, for example. 
Trending of small power, lighting and main-feed power consumption may be very useful for 
high-quality savings determination and operational feedback, but useless for real-time control. 
Control system software can often perform other functions to assist the tracking of changes to 
static factors during the reporting period, such as automatically recording changes in set-points.  
Facility staff should be properly trained in this use of the system so they can develop their own 
trending information for diagnosing system problems, providing the system has the capacity for 
extra trending. However where a contractor is responsible for some operations controlled by the 
system, security arrangements should ensure that persons can only access functions for which 
they are competent and authorized. 
The control-system design and monitoring team may have a direct read-only connection into the 
system via a modem link so that it can easily inspect trend data in the team’s office. However 
possible concerns for virus attacks and computer security should be addressed in this situation. 
Control systems can record energy use with their trending capability. However, some systems 
record "change of value" (COV) events that are not directly used for calculating energy savings 
without tracking time intervals between individual COV events (Claridge et al. 1993, Heinemeier 
and Akbari 1993). It is possible to tighten COV limits in order to force the trending towards more 
regular intervals, but this can overload systems that are not designed for such data densities.  
Great care should be exercised to: 
 
Control access and/or changes to the sysem trend log from which the energy data are 
extracted. 
 
Develop post-processing routines for changing any control-system COV data into time-
series data for performing an analysis. 
 
Get from the control system supplier:  
o standard traceable calibrations of all sensors it supplies,  
o evidence that proprietary algorithms for counting and/or totaling pulses and units are 
accurate. (Currently, there are no industry standards for performing this analysis (Sparks 
et al. 1992)), and 
o commitment that there is adequate processing and storage capacity to handle trending 
data while supporting the system's control functions. 
 
8.12  Significant Digits 
When performing any arithmetic calculation, one must consider the inherent accuracy of the 
data so the result does not presume greater accuracy than is defendable.  For this reason, 
engineers have adopted a standard of rounding rules that limits the resolution of a result to that 
which is supported by the data.  Therefore, the IPMVP has adopted the following rules to insure 
all calculations performed under this standard adhere to strict accuracy standards. 
 
