8        IPMVP Framework and Options 
 
 
Savings  =  (Baseline-Period Use or Demand - Reporting-Period Use or Demand) 
 
 
 
 
± Adjustments  
 
 
1) 
 
The "Adjustments" term in this general equation is used to re-state the use or demand of the 
baseline and reporting periods under a common set of conditions. This adjustments term 
distinguishes proper savings reports from a simple comparison of cost or usage before and after 
implementation of an energy conservation measure (ECM). Simple comparisons of utility costs 
without such adjustments report only cost changes and fail to report the true performance of a 
project. To properly report “savings,” adjustments must account for the differences in conditions 
between the baseline and reporting periods.  
The baseline in an existing facility project is usually the performance of the facility or system 
prior to modification. This baseline physically exists and can be measured before changes are 
implemented. In new construction, the baseline is usually hypothetical and defined based on 
code, regulation, common practice or documented performance of similar facilities. In either 
case, the baseline model must be capable of accomodating changes in operating parameters 
and conditions so “adjustments” can be made. 
 
The balance of this Chapter defines basic methods in these measurement and adjustment 
processes. If these methods do not cover all matters that arise in your project, consult the 
Principles of M&V (Chapter 3) for further guidance. 
4.2  Energy, Water and Demand Terminology 
The processes of determining savings in energy are analogous to those for determining savings 
in water or demand. To simplify the descriptions in this document, the italicized word energy will 
commonly be used to mean energy and water use or demand. Similarly the word Energy 
Conservation Measure (ECM) will commonly be used to mean measures to improve efficiency 
or conserve energy or water, or manage demand.  
4.3  The M&V Design and Reporting Process  
The M&V design and reporting process parallels the ECM design and implementation process. 
The M&V processes should involve the following steps:  
1. Consider the needs of the user of the planned M&V report(s). If the user is focused on 
overall cost control, Whole-Facility methods may be most suited. If user focus is on 
particular ECMs, Retrofit Isolation techniques may be most suited (see Chapter 4.4). 
2. While developing the ECM(s), select the IPMVP Option (see Chapters 4.7 - 4.11) that best 
suits the ECM(s), the needs for accuracy and the budget for M&V. Decide whether 
adjustment of all energy quantities will be made to the reporting period conditions or to some 
other set of conditions (see Chapter 4.6). Decide the duration of the baseline period and the 
reporting period (Chapter 4.5) (These fundamental decisions may be written into the terms 
of an energy-performance contract.)  
3. Gather relevant energy and operating data from the baseline period and record them in a 
way that can be accessed in the future.  
4. Prepare an M&V Plan (Chapter 5) containing the results of steps 1 through 3 above. It 
should define the subsequent steps 5 through 9.  
5. As part of the final ECM design and installation, also design, install, calibrate and 
commission any special measurement equipment that is needed under the M&V Plan.  
