 
IPMVP Framework and Options       19 
 
Two Options are presented for isolating the energy use of the equipment affected by an ECM 
from the energy use of the rest of the facility: 
 
Option A: Retrofit Isolation: Key Parameter Measurement (See Chapter 4.8.1) 
 
Option B:  Retrofit Isolation: All Parameter Measurement (See Chapter 4.8.2) 
Isolation metering is placed at the measurement boundary between equipment which the ECM 
affects and equipment which it does not affect.  
When drawing a measurement boundary, care 
should be taken to consider any energy flows 
affected by the ECM but beyond the boundary. A 
method must be derived for estimating such 
interactive effects (See Chapter 4.4). For 
example, a lighting load reduction often reduces 
HVAC system energy use, but the only 
reasonable measurement boundary would 
encompass just the electricity use of the lights, 
not their heating and cooling energy impacts. In 
this case the ECM’s effect on HVAC energy 
requirements is an interactive effect, which must 
be assessed. If the interactive effect is expected 
to be significant, engineering estimates could be 
made of the interactive effect as some fraction of 
the measured lighting-energy savings. 
Conventional heating and cooling calculations 
would be used to determine the appropriate 
fraction(s) for each season. However if the 
measurement boundary can be expanded to 
encompass interactive effects, there is no need to 
estimate them. 
Apart from small estimated interactive effects, the measurement boundary defines the metering 
points and the scope of any adjustments, which may be used in the various forms of Equation 
1). Only changes to energy systems and operating variables within the measurement boundary 
must be monitored to prepare the adjustments term(s) of Equation 1).   
Chapter 4.5 discusses measurement periods, generally. Parameters may be continuously 
measured or periodically measured for short periods. The expected amount of variation in the 
parameter will govern the decision of whether to measure continuously or periodically. Where a 
parameter is not expected to change it may be measured immediately after ECM installation 
and checked occasionally throughout the reporting period. The frequency of this checking can 
be determined by beginning with frequent measurements to verify that the parameter is 
constant. Once proven constant, the frequency of measurement may be reduced. To maintain 
control on savings as measurement frequency drops, more frequent inspections or other tests 
might be undertaken to verify proper operations. 
Continuous metering provides greater certainty in reported savings and more data about 
equipment operation. This information can be used to improve or optimize the operation of the 
equipment on a real-time basis, thereby improving the benefit of the ECM itself. Results from 
several studies have shown five to fifteen percent annual energy savings can be achieved 
through careful use of continuous data logging (Claridge et al. 1994, 1996; Haberl et al. 1995).  
If measurement is not continuous and meters are removed between readings, the location of the 
measurement and the specifications of the measurement device should be recorded in the M&V 
Plan, along with the procedure for calibrating the meter being used. Where a parameter is 
expected to be constant, measurement intervals can be short and occasional. Electric motors in 
Retrofit Isolation Example 
A boiler is replaced with a more 
efficient one. A measurement 
boundary is drawn around just the 
boiler so that the assessment of 
the new boiler is unaffected by 
variations in the heating load of the 
whole facility.  
Meters for fuel consumption and 
boiler heat output are all that are 
needed to assess the efficiencies 
of the two boilers over their full 
range of operations. Savings are 
reported for the boiler retrofit by 
applying the observed efficiency 
improvement to an estimated 
annual boiler load. The boiler 
efficiency test is repeated annually.  
