 
Appendix B Uncertainty         87 
 
APPENDIX B   UNCERTAINTY 
B-1   Introduction 
The objective of M&V is to reliably determine energy savings. In order for savings reports to be 
reliable, they need to have a reasonable level of uncertainty. The uncertainty of a savings report 
can be managed by controlling random errors and data bias. Random errors are affected by the 
quality of the measurement equipment, the measurement techniques, and the design of the 
sampling procedure. Data bias is affected by the quality of measurement data, assumptions and 
analysis. Reducing errors usually increases M&V cost so the need for improved uncertainty 
should be justified by the value of the improved information (see Chapter 8.5). 
Energy savings computations involve a comparison of measured energy data, and a calculation 
of “adjustments” to convert both measurements to the same set of operating conditions (see 
Chapter 4.1, Equation 1). Both the measurements and the adjustments introduce error. Errors 
may arise for example due to meter inaccuracy, sampling procedures or adjustment procedures. 
These processes produce statistical “estimates” with reported or expected values, and some 
level of variation. In other words, true values are not known, only estimates with some level of 
uncertainty. All physical measurement and statistical analysis is based on estimation of central 
tendencies, such as mean values, and quantification of variations such as range, standard 
deviation, standard error, and variance.  
Statistics is the body of mathematical methods that can be applied to data to help make 
decisions in the face of uncertainty. For example, statistics provide ways of checking results to 
see if the reported savings are “significant,” i.e. likely to be a real effect of the ECM rather than 
random behavior.  
Errors occur in three ways: modeling, sampling, and measurement:  
 
Modeling.  Errors in mathematical modeling due to inappropriate functional form, inclusion of 
irrelevant variables, exclusion of relevant variables, etc. See Appendix B-2. 
 
Sampling.  Sampling error arises when only a portion of the population of actual values is 
measured, or a biased sampling approach is used. Representation of only a portion of the 
population may occur in either a physical sense (i.e., only 20 of 1,000 light fixtures are 
metered), or in the time sense (metering occurring for only ten minutes out of every hour). 
See Appendix B-3. 
 
Measurement.  Measurement errors arise from the accuracy of sensors, data tracking 
errors, drift since calibration, imprecise measurements, etc. The magnitude of such errors is 
largely given by manufacturer's specifications and managed by periodic re-calibration. See 
Appendix B-4, and Chapters 4.8.3 and 8.11. 
This Appendix gives guidance on quantifying the uncertainties created by these three forms of 
error. Appendix B-5 discusses methods of combining quantified elements of uncertainty. 
Some sources of error are unknown and unquantifiable. Examples of such sources are poor 
meter selection or placement, inaccurate estimates in Option A, or mis-estimation of interactive 
effects in Options A or B. Unknown or unquantifiable uncertainties can only be managed by 
following industry best practices. 
An example of the use of uncertainty analysis is given in Appendix B-6. Also some of the 
examples in Appendix A present uncertainty calculations: A-3, A-3-2, A-4 and A-7. EVO’s 
subscriber website (www.evo-world.org) contains details of the uncertainty calculations in A-4 
and A-7. 
