 
Other Common M&V Issues       45 
 
possible ways to document the results of an ECM so that users can develop low-cost M&V 
procedures that provide adequate information. 
It is difficult to generalize about costs for the different IPMVP Options, since each project will 
have its own budget. However, M&V should incur no more cost than needed to provide 
adequate certainty and verifiability in the reported savings, consistent with the overall budget for 
the ECMs.   
 
Option A 
Number of measurement points; complexity of 
estimation; frequency of reporting period inspections. 
Option B 
Number of measurement points; length of the reporting 
period. 
Option C 
Number of static factors to be tracked during the 
reporting period; number of independent variables to be 
used for routine adjustments. 
Option D 
Number and complexity of systems simulated; number of 
field measurements needed to provide input data for the 
calibrated simulation; skill of professional simulator in 
achieving calibration. 
 
Table 4 highlights key cost-governing factors unique to each Option, or not listed above. 
Commonly, since Option A involves estimates, it will involve fewer measurement points and 
lower cost, providing estimation and inspection costs are not unusually high. Option A methods 
usually have lower cost and higher uncertainty than Option B methods.   
Since new measurement equipment is often involved in Options A or B, the cost of maintaining 
this equipment may make Option C less costly for long reporting periods. However, the costs of 
extra meters for Options A or B may be shared with other objectives of monitoring or cost 
allocation. 
When multiple ECMs are installed at one site, it may be less costly to use Options C or D than 
to isolate and measure multiple ECMs with Options A or B. 
An Option D simulation model is often time-consuming and costly. However, the model may 
have other uses such as for designing the ECMs themselves or designing a new facility. 
Expect M&V costs to be highest at the beginning of the reporting period. At this stage in a 
project, measurement processes are being refined, and accurate performance monitoring helps 
to optimize ECM operation. The cost for each savings determination should be in proportion to 
the expected savings and the variation in savings (see Chapter 8.5).  
A contractor is often responsible for only certain performance indicators. Other indicators may 
not have to be measured for contractual purposes, though the facility owner may still wish to 
measure all indicators. In this situation, the owner and contractor share the costs of 
measurement. 
8.5  Balancing Uncertainty And Cost 
The acceptable level of uncertainty in a savings report is related to the cost of decreasing 
uncertainty to an appropriate level for the expected amount of  savings. Typically average 
annual M&V costs are less than 10% of the average annual savings being assessed. The 
 
Table 4  Unique Elements 
of M&V Costs 
