10        IPMVP Framework and Options 
 
Operational Verification  
Approach 
Typical ECM Application 
Activities 
Visual Inspection 
ECM will perform as anticipated when 
properly installed; direct measurement 
of ECM performance is not possible. 
Examples: wall insulation, windows 
View and verify the physical installation 
of the ECM 
Sample Spot Measurements 
Achieved ECM performance can vary 
from published data based on 
installation details or component load. 
Examples: fixtures/lamps/ballasts, fans, 
pumps 
Measure single or multiple key energy-
use parameters for a representative 
sample of the ECM installations 
Short-Term Performance 
Testing 
ECM performance may vary depending 
on actual load, controls, and/or 
interoperability of components. 
Examples: Daylighting sensors and 
lighting dimming controls, VSD fans, 
Demand-control ventilation 
Test for functionality and proper control. 
Measure key energy-use parameters. 
May involve conducting tests designed 
to capture the component operating 
over its full range or performance data 
collection over sufficient period of time 
to characterize the full range of 
operation.  
Data Trending and Control-
Logic Review 
ECM performance may vary depending 
on actual load and controls. Component 
or system is being monitored and 
controlled through the BAS or can be 
monitored through independent meters. 
Set up trends and review data and/or 
control logic. Measurement period may 
last for a few days to a few weeks, 
depending on the period needed to 
capture the full range of performance. 
 
Operational verification activities can also be applied following the Reporting Period to support 
energy savings persistence. While ot formally a part of the M&V process, such a practice is 
beneficial for an organization which has improved its energy efficiency.  It reduces the risk of 
adverse shifts in performance associated with ECMs that can fail, fade or be bypassed.  
4.5 Savings Verification  
The following sections add details about how to determine and report savings.  
4.5.1  Measurement Boundary  
Savings may be determined for an entire facility or simply for a portion of it, depending upon the 
purposes of the reporting. 
 
If the purpose of reporting is to help manage only the equipment affected by the savings 
program, a measurement boundary should be drawn around that equipment. Then all 
significant energy requirements of the equipment within the boundary can be determined7. 
This approach is used in the Retrofit Isolation Options of Chapter 4.7.  
 
If the purpose of reporting is to help manage total facility energy performance, the meters 
measuring the supply of energy to the total facility can be used to assess performance and 
savings. The measurement boundary in this case encompasses the whole facility. The 
Whole Facility Option C, is described in Chapter 4.8.   
 
If baseline or reporting period data are unreliable or unavailable, energy data from a 
calibrated simulation program can take the place of the missing data, for either part or all of 
the facility. The measurement boundary can be drawn accordingly. The Calibrated 
Simulation Option D is described in Chapter 4.9.  
                                                  
7 Determination of energy may be by direct measurement of energy flow or by direct measurement of proxies of 
energy use that give direct indication of energy use.  
 
Table 1 
Operational 
Verification 
Approaches 
