78        Appendix A Examples 
 
in IPMVP Equation 1b). This value was compared to actually measured generation for the same 
period to determine the increase in electrical output. 
No changes happened to the TG unit during this year, so non-routine adjustments were 
unnecessary.   
A-6  Boiler Efficiency Improvement – Option A 
Situation  A boiler contractor replaced a German office building’s existing boiler with a more 
efficient boiler. The contractor guaranteed annual oil savings of at least €25,000, assuming the 
loads on the boiler were the same as he measured during the baseline period. The owner’s 
purchase order specified that holdback amounts would be paid only after the contractor 
presented a  savings report adhering to IPMVP Volume I, EVO 10000 – 1:2012. It was also 
specified that the owner and contractor would agree to the M&V Plan as part of the final design 
plans for the retrofit. 
Factors Affecting M&V Design   Numerous building changes were going on at the time of the 
boiler plant revision, so boiler plant loads were expected to change. The contractor is only 
responsible for boiler efficiency improvements, not changes in boiler load. The boiler is the only 
equipment in the building using oil. The price of oil to be used for proof of achieving the 
performance guarantee was €0.70/liter. 
M&V Plan  IPMVP Volume I, EVO 10000 – 1:2012, Option A was chosen to isolate the boiler 
from the changes going on in the rest of the building. The measurement boundary was drawn to 
include only the boiler, measuring fuel use and net thermal energy delivered to the building. This 
boundary excludes the electricity use of the boiler’s burner and blower. Changes to these 
electrical interactive effects were regarded as negligible, and not worth inclusion within the 
measurement boundary or even separate estimation.  
The contractor’s guarantee was stated relative to the usage of the year before submission of its 
proposal. During that period, the facility purchased 241,300 liters of heating oil for the boiler. 
There was a 2,100 liter increase in oil inventory between the beginning and end of that year. 
Therefore actual consumption was 239,200 liters. The energy load on the boiler will be 
determined from this oil-use data, once the efficiency of the old boiler is established. IPMVP 
Equation 1d) will be used with 239,200 liters as the estimate. This estimate has no error, since 
most of it27 comes from oil shipment data, which is the reference source with no error. 
Boiler efficiency will be the measured parameter in Equation 1d). Efficiency tests were planned 
for a period of typical winter conditions before removing the old boiler. Winter conditions were 
chosen so that there was sufficient load to assess efficiency under the full range of boiler loads. 
A recently calibrated thermal energy meter was installed by the contractor on the boiler supply 
and return water lines and a calibrated oil meter installed on the fuel supply to the boiler. Both 
the oil meter and the thermal-energy meter and data logger have manufacturers’ rated 
precisions of ±2% for the ranges involved in this project.  
Baseline efficiency tests were conducted over three separate one-week periods when daily 
mean ambient temperatures ranged from -5oC to +5oC. Identical tests were planned for the first 
period after commissioning of the new boiler when ambient temperatures are once again in the -
5oC to +5oC range, using the same oil and thermal energy meters left in place since the baseline 
efficiency tests. Since the three individual one-week tests are expected to include periods 
                                                  
27 Oil inventory levels are read from an un-calibrated tank gauge of unknown accuracy. Since the magnitude of 
inventory adjustments are small relative to metered shipments for the year, any error in this inventory term were 
considered negligible. 
 
