80        Appendix A Examples 
 
Only administration offices have mechanical air-conditioning equipment, which operates for 3 
months of the year. 
Expected annual savings on the gas meter are 2,800 mcf, and 380,000 kWh on the main 
electricity meter. 
M&V Plan  An M&V Plan was developed showing that IPMVP Volume I, EVO 10000 – 1:2012, 
Option C was to be used for savings determination because total facility energy cost was the 
focus. Option C was also chosen because many ECMs were involved, some of which could not 
be directly measured.  
Since savings are to be reported as “cost avoidance,” i.e. under reporting period conditions, 
Equation 1b) will be used.  
An outline of key elements in the M&V Plan is shown below. Details, data and analysis are 
shown on the EVO subscribers’ website (www.evo-world.org). 
 
The measurement boundary of this savings determination was defined as: 
o An electricity account, including demand, serving the main building, 
o An auxiliary electrical account, without demand, serving lighting in the field house, 
o A natural gas account for the main building. 
 
The 2005 baseline conditions were recorded, including a strategy for the engineering 
department to easily capture information about future changes.  
 
The baseline period’s energy data and weather data were recorded and analyzed by simple 
linear regression of monthly energy use and energy demand against degree days. Degree-
day data was with the base temperature, which yielded the best R2 from a number of 
regression analyses performed over a range of plausible base temperatures.  
 
Preliminary analysis found clear correlations with weather for winter gas use and winter 
electricity consumption on the main meter. Analysis also showed that there is no significant 
weather correlation with electric demand, summer gas or electricity use. It was decided that 
regression would only be performed on billing periods with more than 50 heating degree 
days (HDD). It was also decided that for reporting periods with 50 or fewer HDDs, adjusted-
baseline values would be derived directly from the corresponding baseline month, adjusted 
solely for the number of days in the period.  
The energy/HDD relationships were derived for the heating season on all three accounts as 
shown in Table A-7-1, along with key regression statistics and coefficients where significant 
relationships were found.  
 
 
Gas 
Electricity 
Main Building 
Field House 
Consumption 
Demand
Consumption 
Units 
mcf 
kWh 
kW 
kWh 
Number of months with 
more than 50 HDD 
8 
8 
8 
9 
HDD Base 
60oF 
62oF 
62oF 
68oF 
Regression Statistics:
R2 
0.93 
0.81 
0.51 
0.29 
Standard Error of the 
estimate 
91 
15,933 
 
 
t statistic of the HDD 
coefficient 
8.7 
5.0 
2.5 
1.7 
 
Table A-7-1 
Regression 
Analysis 
