94        Appendix B Uncertainty 
 
B-2.1.3   Inclusion of Irrelevant Variables  
Sometimes models include irrelevant independent variable(s). If the irrelevant variable has no 
relationship (correlation) with the included relevant variables, then it will have minimal impact on 
the model. However, if the irrelevant variable is correlated with other relevant variables in the 
model, it may bias the coefficients of the relevant variables.  
Use caution in adding more independent variables into a regression analysis just because they 
are available. To judge the relevance of independent variables requires both experience and 
intuition. However, the associated t-statistic (see B-2.2.3 below) is one way of confirming the 
relevance of particular independent variables included in a model. Experience in energy 
analysis for the type of facility involved in any M&V program is is necessary to determine the 
relevance of independent variables. 
B-2.1.4   Functional Form 
It is possible to model a relationship using the incorrect functional form. For example, a linear 
relationship might be incorrectly used in modeling an underlying physical relationship that is 
non-linear. For example, electricity consumption and ambient temperature tend to have a non-
linear (often ‘U’ shaped) relationship with outdoor temperature over a one-year period in 
buildings that are both heated and cooled electrically. (Electricity use is high for both low and 
high ambient temperatures, while relatively low in mid seasons.) Modeling this non-linear 
relationship with a single linear model would introduce unnecessary error. Instead, separate 
linear models should be derived for each season.  
It may also be appropriate to try higher order relationships, e.g., Y = f(X, X2, X3).   
The modeler needs to assess different functional forms and select the most appropriate among 
them using the evaluation measures presented in Appendix B-2.2, below. 
B-2.1.5   Data Shortage 
Errors may also occur from insufficient data either in terms of quantity (i.e., too few data points) 
or time (e.g., using summer months in the model and trying to extrapolate to winter months). 
The data used in modeling should be representative of the range of operations of the facility. 
The time period covered by the model needs to include various possible seasons, types of use, 
etc. This may call for either extension of the time periods used or increasing sample sizes.  
B-2.2   Evaluating Regression Models 
In order to evaluate how well a particular regression model explains the relationship between 
energy use and independent variable(s), three tests may be performed as described below.  
Appendix B-6 provides evaluation of an example regression model. 
B-2.2.1   Coefficient of Determination (R2) 
The first step in assessing the accuracy of a model is to examine the Coefficient of 
Determination, R2, a measure of the extent to which variations in the dependent variable Y from 
its mean value are explained by the regression model. Mathematically, R2 is: 
 
 
 
 
Y
in
Variation
Total
Y
in
Variation
Explained
R 
2
 
 
or more explicitly: 
 
 
 
