 
24 
 
RESULTS 
 
There are two important questions to answer as a part of this evaluation. First, does the product 
appear to provide the benefits suggested by the manufacturer? Second, was the process by which 
data was gathered appear to meet the necessary requirements to demonstrate that benefit?  
 
The data collection protocol for the 49 in-situ DX units and 8 in-situ chillers appears to be in 
conformance with that suggested by the standards.  In-situ before and after results is indicative of 
the initial results thereby eliminating the need to provide corrections.  However these short-term 
comparisons do not necessarily portend long-term results.  A long-term comparison however is 
impossible since all equipment is different and virtually every site has differing use and demand 
characteristics. Initial results appear to be appropriate, although continued periodic modeling 
would be helpful to demonstrate the long-term results. Powertron Global has long term results 
that are available from a major banking institution located in the southern United States.  
 
The four (4) units at the Juno Bach lab test site also followed the suggested protocol with the 
same notes and caveats for the building sites.   
 
The requisite data was gathered and the calculations noted previously were developed.  The 
intent of these efforts is outlined in Table 1.  For example, voltage and amperage must be 
measured so that watts can be calculated.  The changes in voltage should be minimal as the 
electrical system/motors drive the voltage required, however amperage measured affects the 
draw upon the grid.  Higher amperage means more draw.  Since wattage includes both of these 
parameters, higher amperage means higher watts, and therefore more power demand from the 
grid.  The desire is that the additive will decrease demand on the grid.  Likewise the remaining 
factors are summarized.   
 
With respect to the evaluation of whether the technology PermaFrost NMR® works requires 
investigation into whether the goals for the parameters above were met.  Tables 2 and 3 compare 
the results, including all the factors listed in Table 1 for DX units and CHillers.  Tables 4 and 5 
denote whether the goals of the technology (to improve efficiency and reduce draw on the grid) 
are met or not.  In all cases the PermaFrost NMR® met the intent.   
 
Table 2 summary observations: 
 
• Voltage relatively constant 
• Amperage dropped at most sites after PermaFrost NMR® was added.  The overall 
average was a decrease of 7% 
• Air flow was constant 
• Coil Capacity increased at each site that PermaFrost NMR® was installed with an 
average of 29/4%. 
• The COP improved 13.3% 
• Watts per ton decreased at the three standard HVAC system sites by an average of 
20.3%, with a total average, adjusted wattage improvement of 16% 
• Efficiency improved by + 4.9% 
 
Table 3 observations (controlled lab site): 
