 
Appendix B Uncertainty         93 
 
   monthly energy consumption = 342,000 + (63 x HDD) + (103 x CDD) + (222 x Occupancy) 
 
HDD and CDD are heating and cooling degree days, respectively. Occupancy is a measure of 
percent occupancy in the building. In this model 342,000 is an estimate of baseload in kWh, 63 
measures the change in consumption for one additional HDD, 103 measures the change in 
consumption for one additional CDD, and 222 measures the change in consumption per 1% 
change in occupancy. 
Appendix B-6 presents an example of a regression analysis report for a single independent 
variable, from common spreadsheet software. 
B-2.1   Modeling Errors 
When using regression models, as described above, several types of errors may be introduced 
as listed below. 
1. The model is built on values that are outside the probable range of the variables to be used. 
A mathematical model should only be constructed using reasonable values of the 
dependent and independent variables. 
2. The mathematical model may not include relevant independent variables, introducing the 
possibility of biased relationships (omitted variable bias). 
3. The model may include some variables that are irrelevant. 
4. The model may use inappropriate functional form. 
5. The model may be based on insufficient or unrepresentative data. 
Each of these types of modeling errors is discussed below. 
B-2.1.1   Using Out of Range Data 
If the model is built on data that are not representative of the normal energy behavior of the 
facility, then the predictions may not be relied upon. This may include inclusion of outliers, or 
values that are well outside the range of reasonableness. Data should be screened before 
building the model. 
B-2.1.2   Omission of Relevant Variables 
In M&V, regression analysis is used to account for changes in energy use. Most complex 
energy using systems are affected by innumerable independent variables. Regression models 
cannot hope to include all independent variables. Even if it were possible, the model would be 
too complex to be useful and would require excessive data gathering activities. The practical 
approach is to include only independent variable(s) thought to significantly impact energy.  
Omission of a relevant independent variable may be an important error. The example model in 
Appendix B-2 tries to explain the variations in monthly energy use using several X variables. If a 
relevant independent variable is missing (e.g., HDD), then the model will fail to account for a 
significant portion of the variation in energy. The deficient model will also attribute some of the 
variation that is due to the missing variable to the variable(s) that are included in the model. The 
effect will be a less accurate model. .  
There are no obvious indications of this problem in the standard statistical tests (except maybe 
a low R2, see B-2.2.1 below). Experience and knowledge of the engineering of the system 
whose performance is being measured is most valuable here.  
There may be cases where a relationship is known to exist with a variable recorded during the 
baseline period. However the variable is not included in the model due to lack of budget to 
continue to gather the data in the reporting period. Such omission of a relevant variable should 
be noted and justified in the M&V Plan. 
