Hefei General Machinery Product
Inspection Institute
1
     Hefei General Machinery Product 
Inspection Institute (The National Quality 
Supervision and Inspection Center for Compressor 
and Refrigeration Equipment Products)(here in after 
referred to as the Inspection Institute) is a third-party 
organ for comprehensive inspection, certification 
and evaluation (examination) with independent 
legal entity status.
The inspection institute passed the ministerial 
examination and approval in June 1988 and passed 
the national examination and approval in March 
1989; and passed the national re-examination and 
approval and metrological certification for 
national inspection center in November 1995. 
During this period, the inspection institute was 
approved as the accreditation laboratory for 
commodity inspection and test center for 
verification of marine products respectively by the 
State Commodity Inspection Bureau and the 
National Ship Classification Bureau. In 1998, the 
inspection institute passed the national 
"three-in-one" re-examination for national 
inspection center by the China National 
Accreditation Board for Laboratories. In June 1999, 
it passed the re-examination and approval of 
Accreditation Board for Laboratories of the 
National Inspection Bureau for Import and Export 
Commodities. In October 1999, it obtained the 
authorization from the State Quality and Technical 
Supervision Bureau. In May 2002, it was approved 
as the appointed CCC certification agency by the 
Certification Accreditation Administration of the 
People's Republic of China. In November 2001 and 
July 2003 the inspection institute was approved as 
"The Examination Department of National License 
Office for Air Compressors" and "The Examination 
Department of National License Office for 
Refrigeration Equipment" by the General 
Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection 
and Quarantine of the PRC, respectively. In 2002, it 
was approved as the "Hefei Certification Center 
for General Products" by the Certification and 
Accreditation Administration of the PRC, and 
approved by the China National Accreditation 
Service for Conformity Assessment. In addition, it 
was successively approved as the national type 
test and evaluation agency for safety registration 
permit for the seals and valves by the General 
Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection 
and Quarantine of the PRC. At the same time, it is 
also the arbitration agency for quality disputes 
approved by five ministries and commissions such 
as the State Administration for Industry and 
Commerce, etc. 
