®
3
Methodology
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the pilot Chillers before and 
after the installation of the ECM to determine the impact on the three key elements as they relate to the 
original design specifications that greatly affect the power bills:
 
 
1. The cooling capacity the Chillers are capable of producing after 6+ years in service. 
 
2. The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the Chillers are delivering 
 
    as reflected in the kW/ton measurement. 
 
3. The thermal dynamic ability of the Chillers to still perform at or close to operational design.
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) testing framework. 
Due to operational constraints relating to ongoing construction schedules in the chiller plant, the testing at 
[Southeast Location] Metro was started on 20 November 2013 and concluded on 4 December 2013. This gave the ECM just 
over 330 hours to gestate within the chiller and improve thermal performance. The ECM normally produces 
90% or more of the improvement benefits it will ultimately deliver at 400+ runtime hours.
The testing at Santa Clara II was started on 23 January 2014 and concluded on 26 February 2014. This allowed 
the ECM just over 600 hours to gestate within the chiller and improve thermal performance.
Notes
The boundary of the testing was the Chillers themselves, flange to flange while matching the baseline and post water 
temperatures entering the condenser and the returning chilled water temperatures entering the evaporator; therefore 
confidence in the accuracy of the performance calculations is very high. Very similar flow rates were used in both testing 
periods.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
