®
7
3,125 tons
3,397 tons
Baseline
Tonnage
Post ECM
Tonnage
• The Chiller should be operating @ 3450 tons of cooling capacity
• The Chiller was operating @ 3,125 tons of cooling capacity prior to
   installing ECM
• The Chiller now has 272 tons of restored cooling capacity after ECM
• The Chiller should be operating @ 8.6 COP or higher
• The Chiller was operating @ 7.85 COP prior to the ECM
   and 8.57 following the ECM
• The COP of the Chiller was increased by 9.2%  following the ECM
7.85
Baseline COP
COEFFICIENT
OF
PERFORMANCE
(COP)
3,125
tons Baseline
100%
CAPACITY @
100% LOAD
Baseline
COP
Post ECM
COP
7.85
8.57
8.57
Post ECM COP
3,397
tons Post ECM
9.2%
Improvement
in COP
272
tons of
Recovered
Capacity
TONNAGE
COP
Summary of HVAC/R Eﬃciency Study Results
Chiller Unit Eﬃciency with PermaFrost NMR® ECM
Like every other business, Data Center Provider has the problem of thermal degradation in its chillers. The lower operating 
tonnage and COP ratings measured in-situ are in line with the ASHRAE loss of performance and cost to 
operate numbers in chillers of this age and usage profile. The degraded equipment performance is costing Data Center Provider 
significant money and wasting energy – and the problem was only going to get worse. Starting the pilot, the 
chiller is consuming significantly more kWh to operate than it did when it was new. 
The performance summary includes the measured efficiency and tonnage of the chiller unit in the baseline and 
post testing periods demonstrating the impact of thermal degradation. 
The implementation of PermaFrost NMR® ECM resulted in a restoration of 272 operating tons and an average 
improvement of 9.2% in Coefficient of Performance (COP), significantly reducing the cost to operate the chiller 
unit throughout the year.
The HVAC Equipment Manufacturer chiller unit treated has a nominal capacity of 3,450 tons when operating at the conditions in both the 
baseline and post. During the recording periods the chiller was operating at 97% load.  Since normal operations 
were not to be changed to accommodate the pilot, the emphasis here is on the delta between baseline and post.  
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
