®
1
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Report
Purpose of the Study
This comprehensive efficiency study was conducted in an effort to verify the effectiveness of the PermaFrost 
NMR®  Energy Conservation Measure (ECM) in two large, mission critical centrifugal chillers located on 
opposite sides of the country. The chiller selected represent and to document the future avoided energy costs 
associated with the same. The chillers selected represent a microcosm of the overall Data Center Provider portfolio of chiller 
equipment. This allows the average savings percentage achieved and the future avoided energy costs calculated 
to be easily extrapolated out five and 10 years into the future to determine the viability of the business case.  
Understanding the Opportunity for Efficiency Restoration
All Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning and Refrigeration (HVACR) systems experience thermal
degradation over time. Internal surfaces of heat exchangers lose their optimal thermal transfer
characteristics, resulting in reduced capacity, lower efficiency, and higher operating costs. This
degradation affects superheat levels and overall system performance, impacting the useful
equipment life of the HVACR system.
Restoring System Efficiency with PermaFrost NMR
PermaFrost NMR® technology addresses this thermal degradation by creating a permanent thermal
metal coating on the tube walls, whether on the inside or outside surfaces depending on the HVACR
equipment. This coating conditions the metal surfaces, reducing friction and restoring the system's
original thermal transfer efficiency. In every application this results in a lower per unit cost of cooling
which ultimately translates into lower overall energy costs. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
