Following treatment with the ECM, the elevator room (Bard 5 ton) unit showed an effective 16.4% reduction 
in kW/ton based on the exact capacity measured in the baseline M&V and the post gestation M&V. The ECM 
also produced an increase cooling capacity of 29.5%; which equates to 1.17 tons. Prior to the ECM, the unit 
produced a total of 3.96 tons of cooling as measured in-situ. After the ECM, the average combined tonnage 
produced increased to 5.13 tons. This increase in cooling capacity increase from the baseline performance 
levels led to an effective increase in COP of 20% and a calculated reduction in kWh of 23.9%. All of these 
factors directly correlate to what Commercial Real Estate Company Realty will realize in energy savings as they operate this unit in the 
future under the same parameters.
Following treatment the two treated units mentioned above also showed a combined 31.5% increase in the 
Enthalpy Delta across the coil versus the Baseline, which is a critical measurement used to determine the 
thermodynamic enhancement brought about by the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. The RTU’s also showed a 
significant improvement in refrigeration approach of 30.9%.
Chiller
Following treatment with the PermaFrost 
NMR® technology and operating at 65% load 
amps, the chiller showed an effective net 
average 20.6% reduction in kW/ton and an 
increase in capacity of 36.4%. The operating 
tonnage grew substantially from 483.6 tons to 
659.6 tons. This capacity increase from the 
baseline performance level resulted in an 
effective average increase in COP of 24.4%. All of these factors directly correlate to what Commercial Real Estate Company Realty will 
realize in energy savings as they operate this chiller in the future under the same parameters.
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, the refrigerant approach was also lowered 
from 6.4°F to 1.1°F. This represents a 82.8% improvement in approach, which is another measureable way to 
determine the thermodynamic enhancement brought about by the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.
The result of the ECM improvements in all three (3) units) is an ROI to Commercial Real Estate Company Realty that is measured in months. 
The tables of data used to determine the financial payback are available for review at the end of this report.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
