Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces. 
A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment was implemented to determine if the operational 
conditions of the systems were satisfactory. Baseline M&V was recorded on each of the three units and then 
the proper amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® was injected directly into the suction side of the 
refrigerant loop. The gestation period for the Commercial Real Estate Company Realty pilot was 4 weeks. At the end of this gestation 
period, Post M&V results were taken in the identical manner as in the baseline, taking special care to match 
the same or very similar outside air temperatures as well as the wet bulb and dry bulb temperatures of the 
air entering the respective coils. These are three of the most critical variables to contend with in an in-situ 
HVAC testing situation. When analyzing all of the data in the baseline and post, only the lobby unit 
required an amp adjustment slightly downwards due to the fact that the O.A.T. in the post was 6 degrees F 
warmer. The other two units, the chiller and the elevator room, did not require any adjustments.
The HVAC Equipment Manufacturer 12.5 ton unit’s (servicing the lobby) performance was validated at only 50% of its operating 
capacity due to available building load. All measurements were taken with only one compressor operating 
but both circuits were treated.
  
The following report produces the utilization of 
the International Performance Measurement 
and Verification Protocol (IPMVP) as the M&V 
plan. Sara Neff, Vice President of Sustainability, 
and Bill Wendt, Vice President of Facilities and 
Engineering, of Commercial Real Estate Company Realty, and Sarah Woods 
of CleanTek were all involved and witnessed 
this pilot. The final calculations were performed 
by Powertron Global®’s Forensic Mechanical 
Engineer, [Senior Energy Engineer].  
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
