PermaFrost NMR® Eﬃciency Report
Commercial Real Estate Company Realty Corporation
September, 2013
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy conservation measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® into one (1) package RTU heat pump, one (1) package modular DX unit located at 
12100 Olympic Blvd. in Los Angeles, CA., and one (1) water-cooled chiller located at 909 North Sepulveda 
Blvd. in El Segundo, CA. Detailed forensic performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed 
on the three units.  Following testing, each unit was treated with the proper amount and type of the 
PermaFrost NMR® technology specially formulated for these types of systems.
Measurement and Verification (M&V) was conducted to establish an initial energy baseline and a post 
avoided energy-reporting period. The purpose of the testing was to show how the ECM improves the 
thermal performance of any system it is installed in.
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly at each unit was solely attributable to 
PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This is a result of the reversal of thermal inefficiency on the heat exchanger surfaces.
Heat Pump / DX
Following treatment with the ECM, the lobby heat pump (HVAC Equipment Manufacturer 12.5 ton) unit showed an effective 29.8% 
reduction in kW/ton based on the exact capacity measured in the baseline M&V and the post gestation 
M&V. The ECM also produced an increase cooling capacity of 33.3%; which equates to 2.25 tons. Prior to the 
ECM, the unit produced a total of 6.76 tons of cooling as measured in-situ (one compressor engaged). After 
the ECM, the average combined tonnage produced increased to 9.01 tons (one compressor engaged). This 
increase in cooling capacity increase from the baseline performance levels led to an effective increase in COP 
of 42.5% and a calculated reduction in kWh of 37.8%. All of these factors directly correlate to what Commercial Real Estate Company 
Realty will realize in energy savings as they operate this unit in the future under the same parameters.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
