Energy Science Division
Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces. 
A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment was implemented to determine if the operational 
conditions of the systems were satisfactory. Baseline M&V was recorded on each of the three RTU’s and six 
compressors and then the proper amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® was injected directly into the 
suction side of the refrigerant loop. The gestation period for the Major US Telecom pilot was 9 weeks. Prior to taking 
Post measurements, systems need to achieve at least 300 or more hours of runtime to ensure adequate 
performance improvement time. At the end of this gestation period, Post M&V results were taken in the 
identical manner as in the baseline, taking special care to match the same or very similar outside air 
temperatures as well as the wet bulb and dry bulb temperatures of the air entering the respective coils. 
These are three of the most critical variables to contend with in an in-situ HVAC testing situation. When 
analyzing all of the data in the baseline and post, no adjustments to the data were needed.
  
The following report produces the utilization 
of the International Performance 
Measurement and Verification Protocol 
(IPMVP) as the M&V plan. Don Wong, 
Director of Facilities for Major US Telecom; Ron 
Roberts, Property Management Firm C Account Manager for Major US Telecom; 
and Kristen Scutella, Business Development 
Executive at Comfort Systems USA all 
combined to pull together to carry out this 
successful pilot. The final calculations were 
performed by Powertron Global®’s Forensic 
Mechanical Engineer, [Senior Energy Engineer].  
As shown above, Bryan Johnston (left), HVAC technician for WJ 
O’Neil (subcontractor to Comfort Systems) physically witnessed the 
measurements being taken.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
