Energy Science Division
PermaFrost NMR® Eﬃciency Report
Major US Telecom Call Center     
September, 2013 
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® into three (3) package roof top units (RTU’s) supporting the various parts of the 
Major US Telecom Support Call Center in Chattanooga, TN.  Detailed forensic performance testing (outlined later in 
this report) was performed on the three RTU’s using R22 as the refrigerant.  Following testing, each RTU 
was treated with the proper amount and type of the PermaFrost NMR® technology specially formulated for 
these types of systems.
Measurement and Verification (M&V) was conducted pre-installation and post-gestation. The purpose of 
the testing was to 1) show how the ECM improves the thermal performance of any system it is installed in, 
and 2) show that the ECM is safe and will not harm Major US Telecom’s  HVAC equipment.
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly at each RTU was solely attributable to 
the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This is a result of the reversal of thermal inefficiency on heat exchange surfaces.  
Following treatment with the ECM, the three RTU’s showed an effective net average 21.4% reduction in 
kW/ton based on the exact capacity measured in the baseline M&V and the post gestation M&V when 
operating at 100% load. The ECM also produced an average increase cooling capacity of 23.4% which 
equates to 5.68 tons or an average of 1.89 tons per RTU. Prior to the ECM, the three RTU’s produced a total 
of 24.28 tons of cooling as measured in-situ. After the ECM, the average combined tonnage produced 
increased to 29.96 tons. This 23.4% cooling capacity increase from the baseline performance levels led to an 
effective average increase in COP across the RTU’s of 26.4% and a calculated reduction in kWh of 25.8% All 
of these factors directly correlate to what Major US Telecom will realize in energy savings as they operate these 
RTU’s in the future as well as other similar HVAC equipment across their portfolio.
Following treatment the three RTU’s also showed a combined 23.5% increase in the Enthalpy Delta across 
the coil versus the Baseline, which is a critical measurement used to determine the thermodynamic   
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
