Conclusion
The improved efficiency (kW per ton) at the unit at 80% load was 9.4% with and additional 3.8% increase 
in capacity.  The improvement in the refrigerant approach, a measurable thermodynamic enhancement 
of PermaFrost NMR®, at 80% load was 53%.  These results are highly significant.  Chiller #1 not only 
provides chilled water at the rated GPM and design chilled water outlet temperature at reduced kW-hr and 
cost, it also does this at a greater tonnage per kW.  This allows the chiller to produce more tonnage at less 
energy. 
These results are in line with what we would expect on a chiller that has only 1.6 years of actual runtime. 
According to ASHRAE, thermal inefficiency of the heat transfer surfaces of air conditioning and refrigeration 
systems, will cause a loss of about 7% efficiency the first year, 5% the second year, and 2% per year the 
following years.  This loss will continue to accumulate until equilibrium is reached between flow force and 
adhesion.  At this point the thermal boundary layer formed has achieved its maximum thickness, producing 
maximum loss of efficiency.  Published ASHRAE information confirms these observations.  According to 
ASHRAE, performance is degraded by as much as 30% due to the thermal degradation of internal 
surfaces.  Higher percentages up to 40% have been observed in systems 20 years old or older.
These identical units (Chiller #1 & #5) have approximately 1.6 years of actual runtime, which equates to a 
loss of efficiency of 9.6% according to the above thermal inefficiency rates from ASHRAE. The efficiency 
improvement on Chiller #1 is 9.4%, which puts these results in line with a ASHRAE.  Now that Chiller #1 
has been treated with PermaFrost NMR®, the efficiency has been restored and the heat exchange surfaces 
are now protected from thermal inefficiency reoccurring for the life of the unit.
Chiller number one, treated with PermaFrost NMR®, has produced significant results.  Additionally, there 
are several direct benefits and indirect benefits that increase the return on investment but may not be easily 
measured.  These additional direct and indirect benefits are as follows:
• Increased tonnage per kW will allow the staff to operate this chiller in some time periods as the only chiller 
that will be required versus operating two chillers to capture a similar load.  The scenario of 80 percent load 
Energy Science Division
®
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
