System Description / Design Characteristics
The chilled water distribution plant of The US Navy Vessel Benavidez is equipped with five York centrifugal chillers. 
Each chiller is equipped with a chilled water centrifugal pump feeding a common header. The two chillers 
in this report are indentical make and model with approximately 1.6 years of runtime.
  
The fresh water-cooled condensers of these chillers are fed from a central fresh water loop that is cooled via 
plate and frame heat exchangers utilizing seawater as the heat exchange / rejection medium. Operational 
conditions are distinctly different when the vessel is docked versus when at sea. The results of this report are 
predicated on operation while docked. The air conditioning plant while docked only has the ability to 
operate one chiller at a time. This is due to the reduced fresh water flow provided by the in port central fresh 
water circulating pump. While docked many of the large square foot areas cooled by the energy plant are 
non-active. Areas that are active are living quarters, bridge and other areas required for the daily non 
-commissioned activities of this vessel. 
The cooling coils that are served by this chilled water 
distribution system are controlled by two-way solenoid 
valves. Upon satisfaction of the temperature requirements 
of the conditioned space these valves will close until the 
space temperature rises. 
At the time of this performance verification the vessel was 
docked and one chiller was being utilized. This IPMVP Plan 
was developed with a defined measurement boundary. That boundary is comprised of Chiller #1 and 
Chiller #5. This boundary was selected with the assistance of the ship’s Chief Engineer [Client Representative]. Chiller 
#1 and #5 are both York Codepak Model YKM2M2G4-CBS Centrifugal water-cooled chillers each rated at 330 
tons equipped with R-134a refrigerant. 
Each chiller was subjected to identical performance parameters demonstrated by the local control of the 
incremental loading of each chiller within a controlled parameter. The verification process was initiated and 
concluded on two consecutive days.  Each day began with no chillers running. One chilled water pump was 
operating in an effort to increase the load on the chilled water loop to a maximum of 80 deg. F.
Energy Science Division
®
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
