3
Energy Conservation Method (ECM)
The content detailed in this report will first demonstrate the ability of the treated chillers to perform prior to 
the ECM being installed, as well as illustrate the thermal degradation that naturally occurs in heat
exchangers over time.
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP as the M&V plan. 
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor * √3/1000 (for 3-Phase)
• kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
• Actual Cooling Tons per Hour = Evaporator GPM X 8.34 * 60 * Chilled Water Delta T / 12,000 BTU
Notes 
Following a diagnostic examination to determine the operational condition of the chillers was satisfactory, baseline M&V 
data was collected and recorded.  500+ runtime hours after installation of the ECM, we returned on very similar weather 
days to assure compliant weather conditions as compared to the Baseline for the purpose of obtaining post M&V 
measurements as was performed in the Baseline. The delta of these measurements and associated calculations demonstrate 
the amount of thermal capacity recovery.
The flow of the evaporator and condenser were measured using NIST calibrated instruments (National Institutes of 
Standards and Technology) for the verification of accurate GPM measurement. 
The remaining measurements were obtained locally from the chiller control panel. The chillers were then treated with 
PermaFrost NMR® on the same day and allowed to run normally to ensure the patented surface science nanotechnology 
had ample time to become assimilated into all the metal surfaces of the heat exchangers. All critical measurements were 
taken at similar incoming condenser water temperatures as well as outdoor air temperatures however routine adjustments 
to normalize the capacity due to warmer or cooler entering condenser temperatures were applied as per the IPMVP 
protocol.
This report is provided to Major Global Bank. It is confidential and proprietary of Powertron Global®, LLC.
Its contents are subject to a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement. The terms of use are
available at www.powertronglobal.com. The report is not to be distributed to any third party without written consent of Powertron Global®, LLC.
