Overview of Energy Study
        In May 2013, Powertron Global® concluded a two-year, two-part energy study documenting the 
long-term effects of PermaFrost NMR® into the climate control systems (HVACR) inside 10 Major Restaurant Chain stores. 
The stores chosen for the study were all located in the mid-Atlantic region because this area most accurately 
represents the operational and energy mean average for all Major Restaurant Chain stores in United States. The study was 
conducted under the guidance of [Client Representative], P.E. MBA, Senior Energy Director, Quality Supply 
Chain Co-op, Inc.
In the summer of 2011, the technology was installed in 24 packaged roof top units (RTUs) and 20 
refrigeration units supporting the 10 stores. The RTUs comprising this pilot project ranged in size from 5 to 
15-tons and involved various models from several different manufacturers. The refrigeration units were all 1 
to 1½ ton systems common to most Major Restaurant Chain store configurations. The refrigerants involved included R22 
(mineral-based) and R404A and R410A (synthetic-based). Based on national weather BIN data for the 
Baltimore/Annapolis/Washington areas for all the hours per year over 60 degrees, the RTUs operate 
approximately 3,896 hours each year. The refrigeration units operate nearly twice that amount of time.
Each part of the study had one primary objective.
1     Phase I determined the efficiency improvements directly at the unit. Scientific testing was 
conducted on a 10% sampling of the systems treated two years earlier to determine their current 
operating efficiency. The International Performance Measurement & Verification Protocol (IPMVP) 
was followed in collecting the performance data. The results, as shown later in this study, verified that 
the four units tested (averaging 5.5 years of age) were restored to (and are continuing to operate in a 
sustainable manner) or very near original design capacity. The units were also shown to be operating 
at or very near to their original kW/ton design. To quantify the expected efficiency loss and 
substantiate the findings, an untreated RTU (control group) installed in June of 2011 was also 
measured so its efficiency could be compared to the older treated units. The untreated 2-year old 
control group unit has already lost 13.7% off its original design specifications through thermal heat 
transfer degradation.
®
2
Property of Powertron Global®
