PermaFrost NMR® Performance Report
Regional Water Utility  
November, 2013 
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® into one (1) air-cooled chiller located at 3600 1st Ave. North Southern City Facility A. 
Detailed forensic performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on this unit owned by 
Regional Water Utility (Regional Water Utility).  Following testing, the unit was treated with the proper amount 
and type of the PermaFrost NMR® technology specially formulated for these types of systems.
Measurement and Verification (M&V) was conducted to establish an initial energy baseline and a post 
avoided energy-reporting period. The purpose of the testing was to show how the ECM improves the 
thermal performance of any system it is installed in.
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly at the unit was solely attributable to 
PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This is a result of the reversal of thermal inefficiency on the heat exchanger surfaces.
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology and operating at 100% load amps, the chiller 
showed an effective net average 16.5% reduction in kW/ton and an increase in capacity of 6.1%. The 
operating tonnage grew from 58.9 tons to 62.5 tons. This capacity increase from the baseline performance 
level resulted in an effective average increase in COP of 19.5%. All of these factors directly correlate to what 
Regional Water Utility will realize in energy savings as they operate this chiller in the future under the same parameters.
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, the refrigerant approach was also lowered 
from 8.80°F to 8.45°F. This represents a 4% improvement in approach, which is another measureable way to 
determine the thermodynamic enhancement brought about by the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.
The result of the ECM improvements is an ROI to Regional Water Utility of 19.3 months. The tables of data used to 
determine the financial payback are available for review at the end of this report.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
