®
Recovered
Energy
5
Recovered Wasted Energy with ECM -  Chiller
The chart to the right illustrates the performance 
restoration the ECM created in the treated chiller. The 
average cost to operate this chiller before it was 
treated with PermaFrost NMR® as calculated in 
kW/ton was .587.
The specific cost to operate this chiller after it was 
treated with PermaFrost NMR® as calculated in 
kW/ton is currently .521.
The higher baseline kW/ton rating measured in-situ 
was expected when compared to the ASHRAE loss of 
performance efficiency and cost to operate estimate 
for a 12 year old chiller. The post results are also in 
line with the average improvement savings shown 
over more than 120,000 installations globally.
Notes 
The efficiency and capacity restored is significant and within the expected range for this type of equipment. However, the 
actual efficiency and capacity restored is lower than the historical statistical average. 
Lower than expected restoration can occur if the unit is :
1   Extremely efficient (statistical possibility)  
2.  Has lower than expected total runtime (unit has not fully degraded in efficiency yet therefore it cannot be restored)
3.  The improper amount of PermaFrost NMR® was not installed (incorrect oil charge information) 
On further review (because of the abnormality), we identified the oil charge to be 20 gallons versus the reported 12-13 
gallons given by the Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer staff. Though still significant, this improper oil charge identification most likely caused the 
lower than historically expected efficiency returns. Once the missing amount PermaFrost NMR® is installed and the 
chiller is allowed to run another 350+ hours, additional M&V measurements will show the maximum amount of restored 
capacity.
Cost to Operate
Baseline
Post ECM
kW/ton
.066  kw/ton
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
.587
.521
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
