®
2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of one of four chillers that 
support the Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer [New Jersey Facility] in [New Jersey Location]. 
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the pilot chiller before and after 
the installation of the ECM to determine the impact on the three key elements that greatly affect Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer’s 
HVAC power bill as they relate to the original design specifications:
 
1.  The cooling capacity the chiller is capable of producing after 13+ years in service. 
2.  The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the chiller is delivering as 
     reflected in the kW/ton measurement. 
3.  The thermal dynamic ability of the chiller to still perform at or close to operational design.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team was led by Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer’s 
 Testing Manager, [Client Representative], P.E., was supported by Commercial Real Estate Services’s [Facility Manager], Facility Manager and Powertron Global’s Director of Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer].  
Notes 
The chiller tested is one of the most efficient types of chillers York manufactures. Both the baseline and post measurements 
were taken with outside air temperatures of 63 and 65 respectfully. The effect of this slight difference in temperature as 
well as a similar slight difference in incoming condenser water from the tower are both within the industry-accepted 
margin of error and thereby considered insignificant in terms of overall results.  
Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer’s repeatable management of the chiller plant during the trial provided more than an adequate heat load on the 
facility to ensure the chiller would remain running during the actual data collection period. 
The boundary of the testing was the chiller and nothing else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance 
calculations is very high.
 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
