Purpose of the Study
This report is the third and ﬁnal in a series of stringent triplicate pilot testing methodologies employed by 
Data Center Provider/Data Center REIT as a requirement prior to general adoption of PermaFrost NMR®.  For this test, Circuit Master® ECM was 
added to the testing to measure the beneﬁt and ROI of using the two technologies together.  The beneﬁts are 
complementary but also mutually exclusive.  
Summaries of Previous Studies
Listed below are the summary details of the past PermaFrost NMR® pilots conducted at the Data Center Provider/Data Center REIT 
Trust (Data Center REIT) data center facilities in other cities. 
 
1. Conducted by Data Center Provider and Powertron Global in 2014 on a single 1998 Computer Room Air Conditioning 
 
(CRAC) system in a facility in New Jersey using the IPMVP (International Measurement and Veriﬁcation 
 
Protocol). The IPMVP is endorsed by the US Department of Energy as the best method to test HVAC 
 
systems in the ﬁeld for capacity and efﬁciency. This ﬁrst pilot produced an increase in capacity of 35%, an 
 
increase in COP (Coefﬁcient of Performance) of 32.5%, and an increase in efﬁciency (calculated as  
 
kW/ton) of 24.7%.
 
2. Conducted by Data Center Provider and Powertron Global in the summer of 2015, but on a much larger scale in a 
 
mission critical location in downtown [NYC Location]. The pilot involved testing and treating 35 CRAC 
 
units averaging 10-years of age using the same IPMVP methodologies as in the ﬁrst pilot. The second 
 
pilot produced an average increase in capacity across all 35 units of 24.7%, and increase in COP of 27.2%, 
 
and an increase in efﬁciency of 21.5%.
Summary of this Study
As detailed below in this report, the third pilot involved testing and treating four CRAC units and produced an 
increase of 21.4% in capacity and other very similar increases in COP and efﬁciency directly attributable to the 
PermaFrost NMR® ECM as in the previous two pilots. 
At the request of Data Center Provider/Data Center REIT, the third pilot included the Circuit Master ECM that works to save energy by better 
utilizing the incoming power to the CRAC systems. When combined with the PermaFrost NMR ECM, Circuit 
Master can create additional power savings. The combined beneﬁts of the two ECM's produced an initial payback 
of less than 12 months.
The engineering ﬁrm EET was included as an additional member of the measurement and veriﬁcation team. EET’s role 
was to provide a secondary method (detailed in this report) for documenting the energy savings produced by 
PermaFrost NMR®a nd Circuit Masters®. EET certiﬁed the accuracy of the data and the methodologies used to collect it. 
 
2
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
