Testing Methodologies
The team used two methods to capture the performance and energy use of the four CRAC systems. First, after 
verifying the amount of air ﬂowing across the evaporator coils before beginning each pilot, the subsequent 
measurements used in the efﬁciency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with Option B of 
the IPMVP (International Measurement and Veriﬁcation Protocol). This Protocol was developed by experts in the 
international community and endorsed by the US Department of Energy to provide a consistent method for 
analyzing HVAC system performance. Baseline measurements were taken on November 11 with outside air 
temperatures averaging between 68-70 degrees. Post measurements were then taken in the same fashion on a 
similar weather day on December 16. 
The results presented below were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic 
engineering formulas:
 
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor * Sq Rt 3 /1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• kW/ton = Actual Measured Energy / Actual Measured Capacity 
 
• Coefﬁcient of Performance (COP) = 12 / (kW/ton) /3.412
 
• Actual Cooling Capacity per Hour = (Measured CFM * 4.5 * Enthalpy Delta T) / 12,000 BTU
The second method used to capture data involved installing a utility-grade power meter directly at the electrical 
panel housing only the breakers for the four pilot CRAC systems and the corresponding condensing units. The 
meter was installed on November 4 to capture one week of baseline prior to the ECM’s being installed on 
November 11. This data was then compared to data in the post (after PermaFrost NMR® had been in the systems 
for at least 250 runtime hours) in blocks of time when the weather was the same.  
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
6
