 Study Overview
As demonstrated in this ﬁeld trial, PermaFrost NMR® restores the capacity on the CRAC systems lost over time 
due to fouling of the heat exchange surfaces. The Circuit Master® devices treat the power supplying these same 
CRAC systems. Working together, the ECMs beneﬁt Data Center Provider/Data Center REIT in any or all of the following ways:
 
• Restoring capacity of the CRAC systems to satisfy ﬂuctuating building loads or lower room temps
 
• Producing additional CRAC system redundancy at no extra cost or interruption to operations 
 
• Improving CRAC system efﬁciency, lowering cost to produce each ton of cooling required 
 
• Restoring thermal efﬁciency, allowing CRAC systems to achieve thermostat set points faster, reducing 
 
   runtime and extending equipment life by 15%+ 
 
• Reducing amp draw and demand charges (KVA) while increasing Power Factor utilization
 
• Producing cooler operating temperatures of compressors, reducing service calls 
The improvements demonstrated in this or any ﬁeld test resulting from PermaFrost NMR® and Circuit Master® are 
dependent on factors such as age, condition, service history, runtime of one or both compressors, and the design 
and operational application of each system. The results in this pilot were very consistent with 14+ year historical 
performance averages as well as recently successful pilots conducted at multiple Data Center Provider locations and independent 
laboratory study completed in May, 2015 on DX equipment by Underwriters Laboratories (UL) in their testing 
chambers in [Texas Location], TX.
Site Selection
The location chosen for this pilot was a separate data center suite supported by four pilot CRAC systems put into 
service in 2001.  The conﬁguration of this suite puts the major load on CRAC systems 1, 2 and 3.  CRAC system 4 
supports the least densely populated area of the main ﬂoor furthest from the entrance. At the start of the pilot, 
CRAC system 4 was the only system where the second compressor was occasionally cycling on and off. A 
temperature logger placed on top of the cable racks in the center aisle of the suite on November 11, just prior to 
the ECM’s being installed, measured temperatures averaging 84 degrees.  
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
3
