Objectives
The four key objectives for this jointly-conducted PermaFrost NMR® pilot study between EET, Powertron Global 
and Data Center Provider/Data Center REIT were all achieved.  They included: 
 
1. Determine that the “as-is” capacity and efﬁciency of the pilot CRAC systems supporting the Data Center Provider/Data Center REIT 
 
    suite had degraded by at least 10% after 14 years in operation.  
 
2. Demonstrate at least 12% performance improvement in tonnage and/or corresponding kW/ton and 
 
    energy reduction in the pilot CRAC cooling systems 250 hours or more after PermaFrost NMR® and the 
 
    Circuit Master devices were installed. 
 
3. Demonstrate the ability of the CRAC pilot systems to produce cooler, drier air as measured in both Dry 
 
    Bulb and Wet Bulb deltas after being treated.  
 
4. To support an effective business case for further deployments of the ECMs within the Data Center Provider/Data Center REIT  
    
 
    portfolio of properties, demonstrate ﬁnancial beneﬁts associated with efﬁciency improvements 
 
    realized over the duration of the study. These beneﬁts must be equivalent to a 24-month or less 
 
    payback to Data Center Provider/Data Center REIT on their initial project costs.  
ECM Product Briefs
PermaFrost NMR®
PermaFrost NMR® is a multi-patented surface science nanotechnology that uses 
Nucleo Molecular Regenerative (NMR®) technology as its core agent. A 
sustainable, one-time treatment with no down time required, PermaFrost NMR® 
lasts for the remaining life of any type of climate control system in which it is 
installed. The direct beneﬁts of PermaFrost NMR® are increased capacity 
resulting in improved system efﬁciency.  
 
Circuit Master®
Circuit Master® is a product that blocks distortions in electrical power above 
and below the normal signal range and contains line ﬁlter capacitors to improve 
power factor. This allows induction power equipment such as HVAC, 
refrigeration, motors and pumps to use less energy.  Equipment lifespan is also 
increased and maintenance costs are reduced. This equipment is installed at the 
electrical disconnect for each machine or at each compressor in a dual-circuit 
HVAC unit where both compressors run an extensive amount of time annually.
  
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
5
