Performance Report on PermaFrost NMR® ECM
Bridgestone-Major Tire Manufacturer
September 21, 2012
Executive Summary
        This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure (ECM) 
PermaFrost NMR® at three Bridgestone-Major Tire Manufacturer (BS-FS) locations in the [Florida Location] metro area. The North 
Florida and Bradenton stores each have 15-ton HVAC units.  The Hanley Rd store has two 5-ton HVAC 
units.  All four of the units involved in the pilot were treated while detailed forensic performance testing 
(outlined later in this report) was performed on one unit at each location.  The units tested were all 
packaged rooftop units using R22 refrigerant and totaling 35 tons. 
The substantial improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly at the units was solely 
attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The units now provide cooler supply air with greater efficiency 
due to the restoration of the heat transfer ability of the evaporator and condenser coils, both of which have a 
direct correlation to an increase in the number of Btuh the machines are now capable of producing.  
Total system efficiency across all three tested units improved by an average of 22.5%, while the EER across 
the units rose by 22.1%.  There was an overall increase in coil capacity of 77,778 Btuh, equating to the 
restoration of 6.5-tons of capacity or 23.7%. There is also a reduction of 17.1% in both total power and watts 
per ton, which is another measurable way to view the thermodynamic enhancement of the PermaFrost 
NMR® ECM.  The result of the average ECM improvements is an ROI to BS-FS of just 16.1 months based on 
the runtime information listed.  The tables of data and financial calculations are available for review at the 
end of this report.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
