®
2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure (ECM) 
PermaFrost NMR® into one (1) water-cooled process chiller located in Vega Baja, Puerto Rico. 
Detailed forensic performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on this unit owned by 
Major Pharmaceutical Company Inc. to determine three key elements that Major Pharmaceutical Company Inc. should be concerned with as they relate to the 
original design specifications: 
     Actual current btuh capacity of the equipment in service with the installed PermaFrost NMR® ECM.
     Actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling the units are delivering as reflected in the 
     kW/ton measurement. 
     Mechanical soundness of the equipment and its ability to still perform at or close to operational design.
Following testing, the unit was treated with the proper amount and type of the PermaFrost NMR® technology 
specially formulated for these types of systems.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. NIST calibrated devices where 
used for the highest level of accuracy and data integrity. IPMVP is the industry standard according to the 
US Department of Energy. Because of its wide international adoption, the IPMVP has been identified as the 
best Measurement and Verification Framework for helping to determine and secure financial compensation 
for emissions reductions resulting from Energy Conservation Methods (ECM).
Measurement and Verification (M&V) was conducted to establish an initial energy baseline and a post avoided 
energy-reporting period. The purpose of the testing was to show how the ECM improves the thermal 
performance of any system it is installed in.
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly at each unit was solely attributable to 
PermaFrost NMR®. This is a result of the reversal of thermal inefficiency on the heat exchanger surfaces.
1.
2.
3.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
