®
    2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the baseline and post ECM performance profile of two similar 
RTU’s, two similar WIC’s and one WIF.  
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the pilot systems to determine the 
impact on the three key elements as they relate to the original design specifications. These same three elements 
will ultimately have a positive effect on the Major Restaurant Chain franchisee’s power bill. They include:
 
 
1. The cooling capacity the systems are capable of producing after an average of 11 years in service.
 
2. The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the systems are delivering as 
 
    reflected in the kW/ton measurement. 
 
3. The thermal dynamic ability of the systems to continue to perform at or close to operational design.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team consisted of [CEO], 
CEO of Energy Consulting Partner; Wen-North VP of Operations, [VP Operations]; [Maintenance Tech], Service technician; 
[Franchise Operator], Franchise Operator, and Powertron Global’s Director of Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer]. 
Notes 
Even though only some of the cooling systems at each location were treated 
with PermaFrost NMR®, the first full monthly power bills from each 
restaurant work to support the much more scientific findings. This helps to 
closely estimate the amount of savings already achieved by Major Restaurant Chain and helps 
determine the impact of future savings.  
All RTU’s, WIC’s and the WIF were tested in sunny conditions with outside 
air temperatures between 84 - 86 degrees.
The boundary of the testing was the RTU’s, WIC’s and the WIF and nothing 
else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance calculations is very 
high.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
