®
    4
18.52 tons
23.34 tons
Baseline
Tonnage
Post ECM
Tonnage
• The Systems should be operating @ 23.92 tons of cooling capacity
• The Systems were operating @ 18.52 tons of cooling capacity prior
   to installing ECM
• The Systems now have 4.82 tons of restored cooling capacity after
   ECM
• The Systems should be operating @ 2.3 COP or higher
• The Systems were operating @ 1.69 COP prior to the ECM
   and 2.2 following the ECM
• The average COP of the Systems was increased by 30.2% 
   following the ECM
1.69
Baseline COP
COEFFICIENT
OF
PERFORMANCE
(COP)
18.52
tons Baseline
100%
CAPACITY @
100% LOAD
Avg. Baseline
COP
Avg. Post
ECM COP
1.69
2.2
Post ECM COP
23.34
tons Post ECM
30.2%
Improvement
in COP
4.82
tons of
Recovered
Capacity
TOTAL TONNAGE
AVG. COP
Summary of HVAC/R Eﬃciency Study Results
Combined Cooling System Eﬃciency with PermaFrost NMR® ECM
Major Restaurant Chain is experiencing significant thermal degradation in their HVAC/R systems. The lower baseline 
operating tonnage and COP ratings are calculated based on historical data and are in line with the ASHRAE 
loss of performance and cost to operate numbers. The degraded performance in the five pilot systems was 
costing the Major Restaurant Chain franchisee, Wen-North, significant money in wasted energy. On average, the systems were 
using significantly more kWh to operate than they were when they were new. 
The performance summary includes the average measured efficiency and tonnage across all the systems in the 
baseline and post testing periods, demonstrating the impact of thermal degradation. Each individual system is 
also broken out.
The implementation of PermaFrost NMR® ECM in the five systems averaging 11 years of age resulted in a 
restoration of 4.82 operating tons, equating to an increase of 26% over the baseline. The systems also showed 
and an average improvement of 30.2% in Coefficient of Performance (COP), significantly reducing the cost to 
operate the systems throughout the year and resulting in an initial ECM project payback period conservatively 
estimated at 10 months.
2.2
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
