®
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Report
Purpose of Energy Eﬃciency Study
The purpose of this study is to verify how effective the PermaFrost NMR® Energy Conservation Measure 
(ECM) is in real world situations on average-aged cooling systems common to Major Restaurant Chain Restaurants across the 
country. Two locations were chosen in Florida for the study, but the ECM works the same way in all cooling 
systems common to the food service industry, producing energy savings by reversing the efficiency robbing 
effects of thermal degradation. This same efficiency improvement is then quantified into dollars saved by 
Major Restaurant Chain in the treated systems. 
The roof top units (RTU’s), Walk-in Coolers (WIC’s) and Walk-in Freezer (WIF) involved in this study are 
representative of a great majority of the portfolio of equipment operated by Major Restaurant Chain franchisees across the U.S. 
and overseas. To better illustrate the substantial impact of the savings, the same information gathered in the 
study is then extrapolated out across large numbers of Major Restaurant Chain restaurants to closely estimate what has already 
been lost in term of energy costs. This same extrapolation methodology is also used to estimate what the potential 
future avoided wasted energy costs are expected to be when treating all RTU’s, refrigeration and ice machines.  
Many industry leading organizations including the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air 
Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), project that all heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration 
(HVACR) units degrade in capacity and efficiency as they operate and age. Thermal degradation is caused by a 
phenomenon that is present in all HVACR equipment that operates as a vapor compression cycle associated 
with refrigerant and compressor lubricant. This thermal degradation is well documented by the HVACR industry 
and the original equipment manufacturers (OEM’s). Thermal degradation prevents units from operating at the 
original design efficiency, which leads to excessive run-times and additional kWh consumption.
    1
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
