®
2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of one of dozens of CRAC 
units that support the Data Center Provider Facility in [New Jersey Location], NJ. 
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the pilot CRAC unit before and 
after the installation of the ECM to determine the impact on the three key elements that greatly affect Data Center Provider’s 
HVAC power bill as they relate to the original design specifications:
 
1.  The cooling capacity the CRAC unit is capable of producing after 16 years in service (refurbished 5 years ago). 
2.  The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the CRAC unit is delivering as 
     reflected in the kW/ton measurement. 
3.  The thermal dynamic ability of the CRAC unit to still perform at or close to operational design.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team consisted of Data Center Provider’s Data 
Center Manager, [Client Representative]; Technician [Client Representative] and Powertron Global’s Director of Engineering, 
[Senior Energy Engineer].  
Notes 
Though mounted on top of the power room raised floor, the CRAC unit tested was elevated 18 inches above the raised 
floor and discharged supply air along the floor, not below it. Both the baseline and post measurement s were taken with 
outside air temperatures of 71 degrees but the post was more humid which showed in the slightly higher entering wet 
bulb reading in the post.  
Data Center Provider’s management of the data center power room during the trial provided more than an adequate heat load on the pilot 
CRAC unit to ensure it would remain running during the actual data collection period. 
The boundary of the testing was the CRAC unit and nothing else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance 
calculations is very high.
 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
