 
This document is proprietary and confidential to Powertron Global, LLC and is not to be modified, distributed all or in part to any third party 
without prior written approval. © Copyright 2020 Powertron Global, LLC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The confirmatory testing is designed to monitor the operation of any system, 
before and after installation of PermaFrost NMR® and the Multi-Enzyme exterior 
coil cleaning, to verify the amount of capacity restored and current kW/ton energy 
savings improvement.  
 
The monitoring isolates the entry and departure points of the medium being 
cooled and the power being used. By recording the conditions at those entry and 
departure points the overall cooling results can be compared to the overall power 
consumed to quantify the power costs per unit of cooling kW/Ton (kilowatt-per-
ton), EER (Energy Efficiency Ratio), COP (Co-Efficient of Performance), Total 
Capacity & Enthalpy Delta T. 
 
 
Notes: 
 
RTU 8 & RTU 9 & unfortunately did not run enough to meet the required gestation 
time (~500 hours per circuit) in order for PermaFrost NMR to fully seat into the 
metal surfaces of the refrigeration circuits. No results were available for the post-
reporting period. 
 
RTU 13 had all of it’s gestation time was met in compressor 1(circuit 1) but not in 
the other two compressors/circuits. As mentioned in the baseline report submitted 
on July 22, 2020, RTU 13 is equipped with 3 compressors however the primary 
compressor that is used is compressor 1. This compressor does work in 
conjunction with compressor 2 on occasion throughout a given seven-day period. 
This compressor is rated at 6 tons but only outputting an average of .37 tons. We 
recommend this unit being serviced AFTER the testing is completed. Compressor 
3 is never energized. It was determined to use the data set when compressor 1 & 
2 were energized. No usable post data was available. 
 
These three units were omitted form the results summary and appendix sections. 
RTU 8 
RTU 9 
  
RTU 13 
  
Circuit 1 
Circuit 2 
Circuit 1 
Circuit 2 
Circuit 1 
Circuit 2 
Circuit 3 
130 
0.5 
18 
0 
457 
38.7 
0 
(in hours) 
 
 
