 
This document is proprietary and confidential to Powertron Global, LLC and is not to be modified, distributed all or in part to any third party 
without prior written approval. © Copyright 2020 Powertron Global, LLC. 
 
 
 
 
Technical 
 
 
When PermaFrost NMR® (interior coil surface treatment) is installed into a unit, a 
molecular transformation develops. This transformation displaces layers of 
lubricating fluids that have been impinged in the evaporator and condenser heat 
exchanger metal surfaces. When the fluid is displaced, the evaporator and 
condenser can transfer additional heat energy through the tube walls (thermal 
restoration). This enables the evaporator to completely dehumidify the air per the  
 
unit’s design specifications.  When more dehumidification is developed, the 
enthalpy (a measure of how many grains of moisture are contained in a pound of 
air) increases. 
 
If the CFM and 4.5 remain constant, then it is the effect of PermaFrost NMR®’s 
Enthalpy Delta increase that restores (increases) the lost capacity (Tons).  
 
If the tonnage increases, then the kW/ton decreases by means of mathematical 
function, demonstrating PermaFrost NMR®’s post-treatment effect lowering the 
electrical cost of every ton of cooling produced, no matter how many tons are 
called for at any given time.  
  
PermaFrost NMR® cannot change any unit’s electrical characteristics i.e. 
everything that requires electricity is rated for the required power under different 
loads e.g. compressors and fans.  
 
The multi-enzyme evaporator coil cleaner (exterior surface treatment) is designed 
for the removal of organic and inorganic debris (biofilm) from the heat exchangers 
to improve efficiency, reduces running costs while improving indoor air quality. The 
proprietary enzyme based cleaner is non corrosive and completely biodegradable.   
 
 
A common form of fouling (exterior surface) arises from the formation of bacteria 
and fungi deep inside the coils. This biological form of fouling is exceptionally 
problematic for HVAC systems. When microbes take root deep inside the coils they 
begin to form biofilms, which is a plasticity type of membrane excreted by these 
micro-organisms. Biofilms are particularly detrimental to the HVAC system because 
these films are highly conductive which works to inhibit heat transfer between the 
metal surfaces of the coil and the passing air flow. In addition, biofilms can have 
sticky surfaces that can accumulate dust and the other fouling debris, thereby 
acting to inhibit air flow and efficient heat transfer though the coils. 
 
 
 
 
 
