PermaFrost NMR® Eﬃciency Report
Regional US Bank
July, 2013
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure (ECM) 
PermaFrost NMR® in the two CRAC (Computer Room Air Conditioning) units supporting the critical data 
center in the Regional US Bank facility at 66 South Pearl Street, Albany, NY. Detailed forensic performance testing 
(outlined later in this report) was performed on the two nominal 6-ton CRAC units using R22 refrigerant. 
Following testing, the CRAC units were treated with the proper amount and type of the PermaFrost NMR® 
technology specially formulated for these types of systems.  Measurement and Verification (M&V) was 
conducted pre-installation and post-gestation 
The improvement in efficiency and restored 
capacity gained directly at the units was solely 
attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. 
This is a result of the reversal of thermal inefficiency on 
heat exchange surfaces.  
Following treatment with the PermaFrost 
NMR® technology, the CRAC units showed an 
effective net average 27.5% reduction in 
kW/ton based on the exact capacity measured 
in the baseline M&V and the post gestation 
M&V. With each of the 6-ton CRAC units 
operating at 100%, the units showed an 
average 31.8% reduction in kWh while simultaneously producing an average increase in system efficiency of 
23.1%. Prior to the ECM, the units each produced an average of 4.12 tons of cooling. After the ECM, the 
average tonnage produced increased to 5 tons. This 21.4% average capacity increase from the baseline 
performance level led to an effective average increase in COP of 39.4%. All of these factors directly correlate 
to what Regional US Bank will realize in energy savings as they operate these CRAC units in the future under the 
same parameters.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
