 
This document is proprietary and confidential to Powertron Global, LLC and is not to be modified, distributed all or in part to any third party 
without prior written approval. © Copyright 2024 Powertron Global, LLC. 
 
 
 
Project Description 
 
Compliant testing is designed to monitor the operation of any system, before and 
after installation of PermaFrost NMR® to verify the amount of thermal capacity 
restored and current kW/ton energy savings improvement. Monitoring isolates the 
entry and departure points of the medium being cooled and the electrical power 
being used. Thus, the overall cooling capacity results can be compared to the 
overall power required per unit of cooling kW/Ton (kilowatt-per-ton), EER (Energy 
Efficiency Ratio), COP (Co-Efficient of Performance). 
 
Notes: 
 
Unit/Node 507 located at CK01 (2704090) in New Braunfels has both 
compressors/circuits wired (“jumped”) in a way that typically calls for both 
compressors each time it is called upon therefore causing this unit to handle the 
building load quite the majority of the time (see 508 notes below).  
 
This units staged cooling (first and second stage cooling) cannot function as per 
the manufacturers as a result.   This condition drastically is reducing the life cycle 
of this unit. Powertron recommends having a technician review this condition.  
 
Unit/Node 508 located at CK01, (2704090) the adjacent unit to 507, only 
operates during extreme temperatures when temperatures of >100 F are present.  
An attempt was made to artificially make it run but was mostly unsuccessful 
within a report structure. This unit is of 2023 vintage and contains some energy 
efficient features not being utilized and could share the workload with 507. 
 
Unit/Node 509 located at CK02 (2704091) is not called upon very often therefore 
not obtaining the required gestation for the benefits of the product to take full 
effect. Those benefits will eventually be realized at a later date once the unit runs 
more. This will be likely when the warmer temps return in the spring. 
 
Unit/Node 510 (also located at CK02) only runs with one compressor quite the 
majority of the time therefore only obtaining the required gestation in only one 
circuit/compressor. Powertron expects this unit to reach its full potential (circuit 2 
improvements) once the warmer weather returns.  
 
 
 
 
 
