 
This document is proprietary and confidential to Powertron Global, LLC and is not to be modified, distributed all or in part to any third party 
without prior written approval. © Copyright 2024 Powertron Global, LLC. 
 
 
 
Unit/Node 512 located at CK03 (2704068) has not achieved quite enough 
gestation time on compressor/circuit 2 at this point however partial results are 
present. This unit also has airflow issues that were documented earlier last month 
in November contained within the progress report submitted to the client. Now 
the unit is not being called upon since early November. It has short cycled (very 
brief ~1 min cycle times) “on” only a handful of times with the transition into 
colder temperatures. Warmer temps will be needed for it to finish its gestation.  
 
Unit/Node 514 located at CK04 (2704076), compressor/circuit 2 needs a bit more 
on gestation time however results are presenting themselves but expect further 
improvements.  
 
 
 
ECM Description 
 
When PermaFrost NMR (interior coil surface treatment) is installed into a unit, a 
thermal molecular transformation develops. This transformation removes the 
residual insulation effects of the presence of lubricants within the heat exchangers 
(evaporator / condensers) of vapor compression refrigeration systems.  This 
enables the evaporator to completely dehumidify the air per the  
unit’s design specifications.  When more dehumidification is developed, the 
enthalpy delta performance and thermal capacity increases. 
 
 
PermaFrost NMR does not change any unit’s electrical component usage, such as 
fans and compressors. It simply restores the thermal energy movement between 
the refrigerant within any system and it ability to absorb heat energy as in the 
performance of evaporators and condensers. 
 
 
Method of Procedure for testing: 
 
The objective of measuring the overall cooling production of HVAC/R systems is 
realized by measuring the total energy consumed by the specific unit being 
tested and the total BTUH thermal production of the system then calculating 
these parameters to obtain current capacity, kW/ton, EER (energy efficient ratio) 
and COP (coefficient of performance).    
 
For these HVAC/R systems, parameters were measured continuously every 
second during all hours for a period of fourteen (14) days to develop a scientific 
baseline.  
 
