®
15
Rack-B Refrigeration Testing Methodology
For this portion of the pilot, measurement data was collected using the Clima-Check Performance Analyzer 
prior to Rack-B being treated with the PermaFrost NMR® ECM on 18 June 2014. The ECM was then allowed to 
work for a period of at least 400+ hours before baseline data was then compared to the post data on similar 
weather days. 
To reduce the impact of the store variables on the data, two similar periods of time on similar days of the week 
with similar in-store and outside air wet and dry bulb temperatures were chosen to compare refrigeration 
performance before and after the ECM. These comparisons included:
Baseline - Friday 13 June, 75° Average Outdoor Air Temp, 8AM – 8PM (full day of operations)  
Post - Friday 18 July, 78° Average Outdoor Air Temp, 8AM – 8PM (full day of operations)
The boundary of the testing was the Rack-B medium temperature compressors and nothing else; therefore 
confidence in the accuracy of the performance calculations is very high.
Refrigeration Eﬃciency Study Results
Calculated Eﬃciency of Grocery Chain A Refrigeration Baseline and Post
The charts below illustrate the energy savings achieved in this pilot. The average Btuh required to achieve the 
Rack-B multiple medium temperature evaporator set points has been reduced from 155,724 down to 89,771. 
This equates to a reduction of 42.4%. The overall kWh associated with the operation of Rack-B dropped 18.2%, 
from 219.1 kWh in the baseline to 179.3 in the post. The input kW to the rack system dropped from 18.2 kW in 
the baseline to 14.97 in the post period. This equates to a reduction of 17.8%. 
The key system improvements have come by way of thermal dynamic efficiency restoration. In particular, the 
delta of the leaving absolute compressor ratio dropped from 5.47 in the baseline to 4.84 in the post, equating to 
an 11.5% reduction. This same reduction demonstrates that the compressors are satisfying their set points 
while running easier. Another key measurement in determining performance improvements is the condensed 
liquid temperature (CLT). In Rack-B, the CLT fell from 104.7 degrees to in the baseline down to 95 degrees in 
the post. This equates to a 9.3% reduction. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
