 
This document is proprietary and confidential to Powertron Global, LLC and is not to be modified, distributed all or in part to any third party 
 
 
Method of Procedure for testing: 
 
 
The objective of measuring the overall cooling production of HVAC/R systems 
can be realized by measuring the total energy consumed by the specific unit 
being tested and the total BTUH production of the system then calculating these 
parameters to obtain current capacity, kW/ton, EER (energy efficient ratio) and 
COP (coefficient of performance). Using that information the total BTUH of 
cooling production can be realized. The objective of measuring overall power 
consumed by an HVAC/R system can be realized by measuring voltage, 
amperage and power factor.  
 
For this HVAC/R system, parameters were measured every second during the 
entire duration of this confirmatory test. A period of seven (7) days was selected 
prior to installation of the PermaFrost NMR to develop a scientific baseline. The 
same was applied to the post reporting period (7 days) after the required 
gestation time was achieved to capture improvements. Data was extracted from 
the same parameters during all operating hours during both reporting periods. 
 
An analysis is provided of the seven (7) day periods of performance profiles of 
subsequent kW/ton, EER and COP are provided in this report. Both the baseline 
and post reporting periods used an outdoor air temperature range of 65-95 
degrees Fahrenheit (30 degree temp span) and used a return air temp range of 
65-75 degrees Fahrenheit. A common CFM range was selected of 7600-9200 for 
both reporting period, which covered the typical operating range of this 
equipment. All data selection criteria can be found at the end of each reporting 
period in this report. The baseline captured over 110K samples and the post-
reporting period captured over 92K samples for comparison. The confidence in 
this data is high. 
 
Total BTUH was developed along with total kW consumption by measuring all 
required data points (33 points - see appendix for points measured) and entering 
them into industry best practice engineering formulae. All measurement hardware 
was certified under NIST or CE standards. Engineering formulae was developed 
by AHRI / ASHRAE (American Heating and Refrigeration Institute / American 
Society of Heating Refrigeration & Air Conditioning Engineers): 
 
Kilo-watt (kW) = Volts (V) x Amps (A) x Power Factor (PF) x √3 / 1000 
British Thermal Units (BTU) = CFM x 4.5 x Enthalpy Delta  
Capacity / Tons = BTU / 12,000 
Kilo-watt per Ton (kW/Ton) = kW Energy / Tons (capacity) 
 
