 
This document is proprietary and confidential to Powertron Global, LLC and is not to be modified, distributed all or in part to any third party 
 
 
Co-Efficient of Performance (COP) = 12/kW per ton/ 3.412 
Energy Efficiency Ratio (EER) = BTU / Watts 
 
 
 
To Determine Capacity: 
 
 
The entering evaporator air volume, dry bulb temperature and enthalpy are 
measured by the CFM and inlet temperature/enthalpy sensors. The evaporator 
leaving air temperature and enthalpy are measured by the outlet air temperature 
enthalpy sensor. The inlet and outlet enthalpies are subtracted from each other 
resulting in a sum called the Enthalpy delta. This enthalpy delta (∆) is used in the 
shown formula below. Other components of this formula complete the equation. 
These include the volume of air passing through the evaporator (CFM or Cubic 
feet of air per minute) and an engineering standard ratio of 4.5 (Ratio of Standard 
Air) or constant.  The result of this calculation yields the industry standard the 
British Thermal Unit (BTU), which is used to calculate the unit’s capacity in BTU. 
This BTU number is then divided by the constant 12,000 which is to convert to 
refrigeration tons because every 12,000 BTUs equals 1 Ton of HVAC capacity. 
The capacity formula is: 
 
 
CFM x 4.5 x Enthalpy ∆ = BTUs / 12,000 = Tons (capacity) 
 
 
CFM – Cubic Feet per Minute of Air Flow or Air Volume 
4.5 – Ratio of Standard Air (constant) 
Enthalpy ∆ - Enthalpy Delta of the Inlet – Outlet Enthalpy 
BTU – British Thermal Units  
12,000 – every 12,000 BTUs equals 1 Ton (constant) 
 
 
 
Example 
 
4000 (CFM) X 4.5 (Standard Air Ratio) X 8 (Enthalpy Delta) = 144,000 BTU, then 
divide by 12,000 = 12 tons 
 
 
To Determine Electrical Energy Consumption: 
 
Total electrical consumption is measured at the main source of electric service of 
each rooftop unit. This includes, voltage, amperage and power factor and a 
constant of the square root of 3 (√3). This is then divided by 1000 to obtain 
kilowatts. The electrical formula for kilowatt (kW) is: 
 
