3
Energy Conservation Method (ECM)
The content detailed in this report will first demonstrate the ability of the pilot chiller to perform prior to 
PermaFrost NMR® (ECM) being installed, as well as illustrate the amount of thermal degradation due in large 
part to thermal degradation within the heat exchangers (evaporator and condenser barrels).
 
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP as the M&V plan. 
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following applicable thermodynamic 
engineering formulas:
 
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• Ton = (Airflow * 4.5 * Enthalpy Delta) / 12,000 
 
• kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
 
• Actual Cooling Tons per Hour = Evaporator GPM X 8.34 * 60 * Chilled Water Delta T / 12,000 BTU 
 
• Refrigerant Approach = Supply Water Temp – Saturated Evaporator Temp (CH) 
Notes 
Following a diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment to determine the operational condition of the systems was 
satisfactory, Baseline M&V data was collected and recorded by the M&V team. One year after installation of PermaFrost 
NMR®, the M&V team returned on a very similar weather day to the Baseline to take Post M&V measurements in the 
identical fashion as in the Baseline. The delta of these measurements and associated calculations show the amount of 
capacity restored.
The following baseline IPMVP data points were recorded on 25 June 2013 using recently calibrated devices by NIST 
(National Institutes of Standards and Technology) to insure measurement accuracy. The chiller was then treated with 
PermaFrost NMR® on the same day and allowed to run normally until 5 June 2014 to ensure the patented surface 
science nanotechnology had ample time to seat into all the metal surfaces of the heat exchangers. All measurements were 
taken at 90% load and at similar outdoor air temperatures. 
The collection of the data in both the baseline and post periods was collected by Powertron Global® and witnessed by 
Major NYC University’s Stationary Engineer. Photographic evidence of the measurements is available upon request. The measurements 
are listed below. 
 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
