2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of one of two main chillers 
that support the main Major NYC University College facility in New York. 
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the pilot chiller before and after 
the installation of the ECM to determine the impact on the three key elements that greatly affect Major NYC University’s 
HVAC power bill as they relate to the original design specifications:
 
 
1.  The cooling capacity the chiller is capable of producing after 22 years in service. 
 
2.  The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the chiller is delivering as 
 
     reflected in the kW/ton measurement. 
 
3.  The thermal dynamic ability of the chiller to still perform at or close to operational design.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team was led by Powertron 
Global’s Director of Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer] and witnessed by Major NYC University College’s Stationary Engineer, 
[Client Representative]. The overall project was managed and directed by [Director Physical Plant Operations], Director of Physical Plant 
Operations for Major NYC University College.  
Engineering Notes 
The chiller was tested over the span of nearly twelve months. During the trial the chiller experienced some issues with its air 
purging system, but once corrected this minor problem did not affect the ultimate results of the PermaFrost NMR® testing.  
Both the baseline and post measurement s were taken with outside air temperatures of 82 degrees and sunshine.  These 
similar temperatures as well as only slight difference in incoming condenser water from the tower are both within the 
industry-accepted margin of error and thereby considered insignificant in terms of overall results.  
Major NYC University’s management of the chiller plant combined with the building load during the trial provided more than an 
adequate heat load on the facility to ensure the chiller would remain running during the actual data collection period. 
The boundary of the testing was the chiller and nothing else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance 
calculations is very high.
 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
