Performance Report on PermaFrost NMR® ECM
Major Restaurant Chain’ Donuts - 2 locations
September 6, 2012
Executive Summary
        This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure (ECM) 
PermaFrost NMR®.  Though all of the HVAC and refrigeration units supporting the two Major Restaurant Chain Donuts 
locations involved in the pilot were treated, detailed forensic performance testing (outlined later in this 
report) was performed on 50% of the operating units at each location.  The three units tested were all Carrier 
packaged rooftop units using R22 refrigerant and totaling 13 tons (one 5-ton unit and two 4-ton units).  
These two particular franchise locations are part of a series of stores owned by Chandresh Patel in the 
Detroit metropolitan area.
 
The substantial improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly at the units was solely 
attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The units now provide cooler supply air with greater efficiency 
due to the restoration of the heat transfer ability of the evaporator and condenser coils, both of which have a 
direct correlation to an increase in the number of Btuh the machines are now capable of producing. 
 
Total system efficiency across all three units improved by an average of 21.8%, while the EER across the 
units rose by 25.9%. There was an overall increase in coil capacity of 28,260 Btuh, equating to the restoration 
of 2.36-tons of capacity or 18.1%.  There is also a reduction of 19.5% in both total power and watts per ton, 
which is another measurable way to view the thermodynamic enhancement of the PermaFrost NMR® 
ECM.  Without any power company rebates factored in, the result of the average ECM improvements is an 
ROI to Major Restaurant Chain Donuts of just 9.6 months based on the runtime information provided to the team by the 
store owners.  The tables of data and financial calculations are available for review at the end of this report.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
