®
This is a report provided to Major South African Bank Headquarters and is conﬁdential and proprietary to Powertron Global®, LLC. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global LLC.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement.
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the pubic domain without our written approval.
2
Process
This comprehensive report contains specific information regarding the performance profile of a single 
water-cooled chiller that supports the Major South African Bank Headquarters. The detailed performance testing (outlined 
later in this report) was performed on the chiller before (baseline) and after (post) the installation of 
PermaFrost NMR®. 
This testing determined the impact on three key elements relating to the original design specifications that 
greatly affect the HVAC portion of the Major South African Bank Headquarters power bill. They include:
 
1. The cooling capacity the chiller is capable of producing after fifteen (15) years in service. 
 
2. The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling the chiller is delivering as 
 
    reflected in the kWEnergy /kWRefrigeration measurement. 
 
3. The thermal dynamic ability of the equipment to still perform at or close to operational design.  
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework.
 
The baseline day chosen to test the chiller 
was an average day temperature and 
humidity-wise for the Johannesburg area 
in the winter which ensured repeatability 
of similar weather for the post testing 
measurements. The weather and facility 
conditions on both days provided an 
adequate heat load on the facility to ensure 
the chiller the system would remain 50% 
loaded and running during the actual data 
collection period. The boundary of the 
testing was the chiller and nothing else; 
therefore confidence in the accuracy of the 
performance calculations is very high.
