®
This is a report provided to Major South African Bank Headquarters and is conﬁdential and proprietary to Powertron Global®, LLC. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global LLC.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement.
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the pubic domain without our written approval.
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Report
Purpose of Energy Eﬃciency Study
Thermal degradation is well documented by the 
American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air 
Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) and the original 
equipment manufacturers (OEM’s). It is a major cause 
of capacity loss in Heating, Ventilation, Air 
Conditioning and Refrigeration (HVACR) systems, 
preventing them from operating at the original design 
efficiency soon after initial installation in the field. 
The purpose of this study is to verify the effectiveness of the PermaFrost NMR® Energy Conservation Measure 
(ECM) in the Chiller pictured below at Major South African Bank Headquarters and document the future avoided energy costs 
associated with the same.  
Summary Results
This comprehensive report contains specific information regarding the performance profile of a 1,203-kWR 
chiller at 100% load (721-kWR at 50%) supporting Major South African Bank Headquarters in Sandton, South Africa.
At the conclusion of the pilot, the chiller showed an overall annual 215,934 kWh reduction while increasing the 
capacity of the chiller by 35.9% from 518.24 kWR in the baseline to 704.28 kWR in the post. The pilot chiller also 
showed a 27.2% reduction in kWEnergy/KWRefrigeration and a 29.2% reduction in annual kW usage. These 
efficiency improvements equate to an Initial Payback Period (IPP) of the ECM project for Major South African Bank of 10.2 
months.
Further details of the measurements are described in the various sections later in this report. All testing was 
conducted by Powertron Global’s Director of Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer] while being assisted and 
witnessed throughout by [Energy and Water Manager] of Major South African Bank and [Plant Engineer] of Property Management Company B. Eldon Van 
Houwelingen of HVAC Contractor B supported the data collection process and installed the ECM into the chiller.  
1
