®
1
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Report
Purpose of Energy Eﬃciency Study
The purpose of this jointly-conducted ECM study between Data Center Provider (now owned by Data Center REIT) and PTG 
engineering teams was threefold. First, to verify the current as-is capacity and efficiency of 35 various 
Computer Room Air Conditioning (CRAC) systems supporting the five Data Center Provider data center suites within the 
[Commercial Building] located at [Building Address] in New York, NY. Second, to demonstrate what, if any, material 
performance changes occur in these same cooling units after being treated with PermaFrost NMR® ECM. And 
third, to determine what, if any, financial benefits are associated with any efficiency improvements realized.  
The identification of CRAC units involved in the study are recorded in Appendix A. 
ECM Product Brief
PermaFrost NMR® is a multi-patented surface science nanotechnology that uses Nucleo Molecular 
Regenerative (NMR®) technology as its core agent. A sustainable, one-time treatment with no down time 
required, PermaFrost NMR® lasts for the remaining life of any type of climate control system in which it is 
installed.  The direct benefits of PermaFrost NMR® are improved cooling efficiency and increased capacity, 
both of which result in lower overall costs to operate a system and extended equipment life.
Methodology
After determining the amount of air flowing across the evaporator coil was within 20% of manufacturer design 
(higher or lower) before beginning the testing of each unit, the subsequent measurements used in the efficiency 
calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the IPMVP (International Measurement and 
Verification Protocol) framework. 
The results presented below were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic 
engineering formulas:
• kW = (Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47)/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
• kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
• EER = Capacity in BTU’s / Power in Watts
• Actual Cooling Tons per Hour = (Measured CFM * 4.5 * Enthalpy Delta T) / 12,000 BTU
 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
