®
Capital Beneﬁts for Data Center Provider when Implementing
PermaFrost NMR®
The capacity recovered after the PermaFrost NMR® treatment has substantial capital benefits including cost 
avoidance, deferred capital expense and capital improvement in addition to the reduced energy cost to run the 
systems. These are instantaneous benefits realized as soon as the technology is installed.
Treating the 35 HVAC units with PermaFrost NMR® allows Data Center Provider to realize the following financial benefits:
 
 
1. Restoration of 183 tons of HVAC Capacity: Current rate to purchase commercial rooftop HVAC 
 
    capacity is ~ $1000 per ton installed. 
 
2. Deferred Capital Cost: Extending the remaining useful life of HVAC equipment will defer capital 
 
    cost of replacement. The average age of the treated systems in the pilot is approximately 10 years 
 
    with a conservative five years (30%) service life remaining. The systems will experience an estimated 
 
    1-1.5 years of additional service life, deferring replacement costs by 20%. 
 
3. Reduction in Energy Use/Expense: Using a conservative 20% efficiency improvement measured in 
 
    kw/ton, the annual cost to run treated systems will drop proportionally - independent of HVAC load.
Summary 
Investment   
 
• $117.50 per ton installed x 802 tons   
 
 
 
 
$    94,235
Savings  
 
 
• Avoided cost of additional capacity replacement or redundency*  
 
$  183,000  
 
• Deferred capital costs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$  160,400 
 
• Capital improvement deduction 
 
 
 
 
 
$    54,900 
 
• Annual energy cost savings  
 
 
 
 
 
$  187,815 
* this benefit comes at no additional cost to operate or maintain compared to turning on additional equipment.
6
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
