®
This is a report provided to Beverage Company B Factory and is conﬁdential and proprietary to Powertron Global®, LLC. © Copyright 2014 Powertron Global LLC.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement.
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the pubic domain without our written approval.
4
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Study Results
Calculated Eﬃciency of Tea Factory HVAC PU Baseline and Post
The measurements taken show just how far off design the Tea Factory pilot PU (#79) had degraded in terms 
of efficiency over seven (7) years of use. This same pilot PU was determined to be performing at an average of 
42% of the original design efficiency in the baseline. The actual design rated tonnage of the PU is 70.34 kWR. In 
actuality, the PU was only producing a total of 29.69 kWR of cooling at the start of the pilot. Approximately half 
of this 58% efficiency loss is directly attributable to the thermal degradation of the heat exchange surfaces over 
a short period of time. This is due in large part to thermal degradation which creates an insulating barrier to heat 
transfer on the tube walls (inside the tube on a Direct Expansion system and outside the tube on a flooded 
evaporator chiller). The remaining efficiency loss is a result of the reduced inlet and outlet air ducting 
configuration used in conjunction with this and all the other PU’s in the factory. The actual airflow across the 
coil in the PU is only about 50% of design so the focus of this in-situ pilot will be on the improvement delta 
over the baseline rather than against design.
After the ECM was installed, the average efficiency in the PU increased to 52% of design specifications, 
equating to 36.87 kWR. The restoration of 8.44 kWR represents a 28.4% increase in capacity.   
 
Cost to Beverage Company to Operate the Tea Factory HVAC PU Baseline vs Post
The degraded capacity described above prior to PermaFrost NMR® being implemented was costing the Tea 
Factory a similar amount in the way of wasted energy each hour the PU was operating. The average cost to 
operate the pilot PU as calculated in kWE/kWR was 0.64 in the Baseline. When new, the kWE/kWR rating for 
units like these usually ranges from 0.25 – 0.35 kWE/kWR when the proper sized ducting is used.
 
The restored average kWE/kWR rating following the ECM is now 0.51. This represents a 20.3% reduction in 
energy costs from the baseline for every kWR of cooling produced. This will result in an initial payback period 
(IPP) to the Tea Factory of 23.64 months and an internal rate of Return (IRR) of 54.3%. Extrapolated out over 
just the next five (5) years, this ECM project will net the Tea Factory a substantial ROI of 272% on their 
investment. These accumulated savings will greatly reduce the eventual CapEx costs to replace the PU’s when 
they finally reach the end of their useful life.   
