®
2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of one of two chillers that 
support the Major Hotel Chain Courtyard Downtown Hotel in New Orleans, LA. 
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the pilot chiller before and after 
the installation of the ECM to determine the impact on the three key elements that greatly affect the hotel’s 
HVAC power bill as they relate to the original design specifications:
 
 
1.  The cooling capacity the chiller produces after 4 years in service, before and after the administration 
 
     of the ECM. 
 
2.  The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the chiller can deliver as 
 
     reflected in the kW/ton measurement, before and after the administration of the ECM. 
 
3.  The thermal dynamic ability of the chiller to perform in relation to operational design, before and 
 
     after the administration of the ECM.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team consisted of Larry 
Trowbridge and Jim Wogick, the Director and Asst. Director of Construction for Summit Hotel Properties; 
Major Hotel Chain’s New Orleans Director of Cluster Engineering, Phillip Lee; and Powertron Global’s Director of 
Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer].  
Notes
The equipment tested is common type of air-cooled chiller manufactured by Carrier.  Both the baseline and post 
measurements were taken with outside air temperatures of 74 degrees.  
The flow rate through the evaporator was set to exact design specifications in the baseline and post and the return chilled 
water entering the chiller in the baseline and post were identical so no adjustments were made.
The boundary of the testing was the chiller and nothing else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance 
calculations is very high.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
