®
3
Energy Conservation Method (ECM)
The content detailed in this report will first demonstrate the ability of the pilot chiller to perform prior to the 
PermaFrost NMR® (ECM) being installed, as well as illustrate the amount of thermal degradation due in large 
part to thermal degradation within the heat exchangers.
 
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP as the M&V plan. 
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
 
• Actual Cooling Tons per Hour = Evaporator GPM X 8.34 * 60 * Chilled Water Delta T / 12,000 BTU 
 
• Refrigerant Approach = Supply Water Temp – Saturated Evaporator Temp (CH)
 
Notes
Following a diagnostic examination to determine the operational condition of the chiller was satisfactory, Baseline M&V 
data was collected and recorded by the M&V team. 400+ runtime hours after installation of the ECM, the M&V team 
returned on a very similar weather day to the Baseline to take Post M&V measurements in the identical fashion as in the 
Baseline and at the exact same outdoor air temperature. The delta of these measurements and associated calculations show 
the amount of capacity restored.
The following IPMVP data points were recorded on 26 September 2014 using the flow meter shown below, recently 
calibrated by NIST (National Institutes of Standards and Technology) to insure GPM measurement accuracy. The 
remaining measurements were taken directly from the chiller’s control panel. The chiller was then treated with 
PermaFrost NMR® on the same day and allowed to run normally until 22 April 2015 to ensure the patented surface 
science nanotechnology had ample time to 
seat into all the metal surfaces of the heat 
exchangers. All measurements were taken at 
similar incoming water temperatures as 
well as outdoor air temperatures. The 
collection of the data in both the baseline and 
post periods was witnessed by Major Hotel Chain 
Cluster Engineering and Powertron Global® 
and backed up by photos. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
