Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content of the following report will demonstrate the effects of PermaFrost NMR®’s ability to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces. 
It was determined with Healthcare IT Company A to treat one 60-ton DX unit. A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment is 
implemented to determine if the unit’s operational conditions are satisfactory. Baseline measurements will 
be recorded and then the proper amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® will be injected. The product will 
be allowed 4 weeks to seat itself into the metal surfaces. At the end of this gestation period, Post M&V 
results were taken in the identical manner as in the baseline, taking special care to match the same or very 
similar entering air temperatures and compressor discharge pressures. These are the two most critical 
measurements affected by the weather. Some units in this report required normalization due to weather.
During the avoided energy reporting period it was determined that the refrigerant pressure and 
temperature was not as per design. Management engaged the services of a mechanical contractor and this 
condition was resolved by adding seven (7) pounds of R-22 refrigerant. Powertron Global® has no 
knowledge as to why the refrigerant level was low or what if any repairs were required.  However after 
refrigerant was added, the refrigerant pressures and temperature meets the industry standards for this type 
of equipment. Post analysis was completed after the refrigerant issue was resolved. 
It was determined with Healthcare IT Company A that the units run approximately 4212 hours annually at a kWh cost of .11 cents 
per kW. 
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP International Performance Measurement and 
Verification Protocol as the M&V plan. Powertron Global®’s Forensic Mechanical Engineer, Edward R. 
[Senior Energy Engineer], performed the final calculations and measurements.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
