®
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Report
Purpose of Energy Eﬃciency Study
Thermal degradation is well documented by the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air 
Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) and the original equipment manufacturers (OEM’s). It is a major cause of 
capacity loss in Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning and Refrigeration (HVACR) systems, preventing them 
from operating at the original design efficiency soon after initial installation in the field. 
The purpose of this study is to verify the effectiveness of the PermaFrost NMR® Energy Conservation Measure 
(ECM) in the Package Unit (PU) pictured below at the Property Management Firm facility and document the future avoided energy 
costs associated with the same.
Summary Results
This comprehensive report contains specific information regarding the performance profile of the 35-ton PU at 
the Property Management Firm office building at [NYC Office Address].
  
At the conclusion of the pilot, the PU showed an 
annual 25,200 kWh reduction while increasing the 
capacity of the PU by 55.2% from 14.3 tons in the 
baseline to 22.2 tons in the post. The pilot PU also 
showed a 35.1% reduction in kW/ton and a similar 
35.1% reduction in annual kW usage. These 
efficiency improvements equate to an Initial 
Payback Period (IPP) of the ECM project for Property Management Firm 
of 6.7 months and a corresponding Internal Rate of 
Return (IRR) of 179%  
Further details of the measurements are described in the various sections later in this report. All testing was 
conducted by Powertron Global’s Director of Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer] while being assisted and 
witnessed throughout by [Client Representative] of Property Management Firm.  
1
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
