®
3
Energy Conservation Method (ECM)
The content detailed in this report will first demonstrate the ability of the pilot PU unit to perform prior to and 
following the PermaFrost NMR® being installed. The report will also illustrate the amount of thermal 
degradation that has occurred due in large part to thermal degradation within the heat exchangers and how much of 
that has been restored after the ECM's introduction.
 
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP as the M&V plan. 
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• Tons = (Airflow * 4.5 * Enthalpy Delta) / 12,000 
 
• kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
 
• Refrigerant Approach = Supply Air Temp – Saturated Suction Temp 
Notes 
Following a diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment to determine the operational condition of the system was 
satisfactory, Baseline M&V data was collected and recorded by the M&V team. Four hundred hours after installation of 
PermaFrost NMR® ECM, the M&V team returned on a very similar weather day to the Baseline to take Post M&V 
measurements in the identical fashion as in the Baseline. The delta of these measurements and associated calculations 
show the amount of capacity restored.
The following IPMVP data points were recorded on 26 June 2014 using recently calibrated devices by NIST (National 
Institutes of Standards and Technology) to insure measurement accuracy. The PU unit was then treated with 
PermaFrost NMR® on the same day and allowed to run at 67% load running two of the three compressors until 25 
August 2014 to ensure the patented surface science nanotechnology had ample time to seat into all the metal surfaces of 
the heat exchangers. All measurements were taken at 67% load and at similar return air and outdoor air temperatures. 
The collection of the data in both the baseline and post periods was collected by Powertron Global® under the watchful eye 
of the NKGF technician who maintains the unit. The measurements are listed below. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
