Energy Science Division
Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to remove the 
accumulated lubricant excess layer on the heat exchange surfaces. 
A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment was implemented to determine if the operational 
conditions of the systems were satisfactory. Baseline M&V was recorded on each of the two CRAC units 
comprised of four (4) compressors and then the proper amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® was injected 
directly into the low pressure service port of the refrigerant loop. The gestation period for the Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer pilot 
was four weeks. 
Prior to taking AERP (i.e., post) measurements, systems need to achieve at least 300 or more hours of 
runtime to ensure adequate performance improvement. At the end of this gestation period, AERP 
measurements were taken in the identical manner as in the baseline, taking special care to match the same 
discharge pressures on the compressors as well as the wet bulb and dry bulb temperatures of the air 
entering the respective coils. These are three of the most critical variables to contend with in an in-situ 
HVAC testing situation. When analyzing all of the data in the baseline and AERP, the amps in the AERP 
period were adjusted downward per industry standards to account for the slightly warmer temperatures 
entering the condenser.
Wes Patterson, Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer’s building manager and Jerry Palacios, one of three HVAC service technicians 
supporting the facility, oversaw the testing on behalf of Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer. The final calculations were performed by 
Powertron Global®’s Forensic Mechanical Engineer, [Senior Energy Engineer] and signed off by Jerry Palacios. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
