PermaFrost NMR® Eﬃciency Report
Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer
Legacy Rd Location, [Texas Location]
Report Summary
This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy conservation measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® into two computer room air conditioning (CRAC) units. The units (#3 and #5) 
are the same age (2001), same size (16.5 tons), use the same refrigerant (R22) and support the same 
mission-critical Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer data center housed within the Legacy Road facility in [Texas Location].
    
Following baseline detailed forensic performance measurement and verification (M&V) testing, each CRAC 
was treated with the proper amount and type of the PermaFrost NMR® technology specially formulated for 
these types of systems. After a gestation period of four weeks, identical testing was conducted under very 
similar conditions using the same test equipment as was used in the baseline.  The purpose of the testing 
was threefold:  
1. Demonstrate how the ECM improves the thermal performance 
2. Demonstrate ECM is safe and will not harm Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer’s critical HVAC equipment
3. Calculate the amount of energy saved per unit by restoring lost eﬃciency
 
Energy Science Division
This 16.5-ton Leibert CRAC unit was one of two units 
involved in the Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer pilot. These units help cool the 
mission-critical Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer internal data center in [Texas Location], 
TX.  The image shows several of the NIST-calibrated and 
certified digital instrumentation used to calculate the 
efficiency of each of the CRAC units in both the Baseline 
and Avoided Energy Reporting Period (AERP) or Post.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
