The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly at each CRAC was solely 
attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This is a result of the successful removal of the accumulated 
excess lubricant layer on heat exchange surfaces.   
Following treatment with the ECM, CRAC units #3 and #5 showed a reduction in kW/ton of 24.3% and 
26.6% respectively based on the exact capacity measured in the baseline M&V and the post gestation 
M&V when operating at 100% load. The ECM also produced an increase cooling capacity of 21.9% and 
29% respectively equating to a total increase of 9.89 tons or an average of 4.95 tons per CRAC. This 
25.9% cooling capacity increase from the baseline performance levels led to an effective average increase 
in COP across the two CRAC’s of 34.7%.  Each of these factors directly correlate to what Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer will 
realize in energy savings as they operate these CRAC’s in the future, as well as other similar HVAC 
equipment across their portfolio.  
Following treatment, the two CRAC’s also showed a combined 25.9% increase in the Enthalpy Delta (i.e., 
amount of work done by the heat exchange coils) versus the Baseline. This is a critical measurement 
used to determine the thermodynamic enhancement brought about by the PermaFrost NMR®  ECM.  
The result of the ECM improvements is an ROI to Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer that is measured in less than one year. The 
tables of data used to determine the financial payback are available for review at the end of this report.
The charts on the following page visually capture the positive impact PermaFrost NMR® had on the 
average performance of the two pilot CRAC units.  
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
