This is a report provided to customer and is conﬁdential and proprietary to Powertron Global®, LLC. © Copyright 2015 Powertron Global LLC. Please be aware 
that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement. This document is not to be distributed to any 
third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. 
 
Purpose of Study 
 
The purpose of this study is twofold.  First, to verify the current capacity and efficiency of a seven-year 
old packaged roof top unit (RTU) in relation to original equipment manufacturer (OEM) design 
specifications.  Second, to demonstrate what, if any, material changes occur in this same unit after 
being treated with PermaFrost NMR.   
 
The identification of test unit is recorded as follows: 
 
2008 HVAC Equipment Manufacturer, 7.5 Ton, R-22, 208/230 Volt-3 Phase, Model TSC090A3EGAZUB 
 
 
Preparation of the Unit for Testing 
 
Powertron Global delivered the test sample equipment to the UL test lab located at 801 Klein Rd. Suite 
200, [Texas Location], Texas.   
UL unloaded and uncrated the test sample equipment and recorded all nameplate information, 
compressors, condenser fan motors, and the type and size of the evaporator and condenser coils.  
UL witnessed and/or took part in the preparation of the units in the staging area by the mechanical 
contractor, Lane Valente Refrigeration (LVR) before separately taking the unit into the test chamber. 
This included the following: 
-­‐ 
all heating elements and economizers being removed so as not to affect the test data (LVR) 
-­‐ 
refrigerant being recovered into its own vessel (LVR) 
-­‐ 
refrigerant being tested for acid content (LVR) 
-­‐ 
core driers being replaced to reduce the chance of creating a restriction during testing (LVR) 
-­‐ 
vacuum being pulled on the system down to 500 microns  for 30 minutes (LVR) 
-­‐ 
reclaimed refrigerant being reinstalled per nameplate (LVR) 
-­‐ 
external coils being inspected for cleanliness (LVR) 
-­‐ 
particulate return air filters being removed during the test (LVR) 
 
Testing Procedures 
After complete mechanical servicing and preparations, the test sample was installed inside the AHRI 
certified dual psychometric environmental test chamber. Next, the indoor and outdoor ductwork was 
built according to ASHRAE 37-2009 and installed on the test sample.  Transducers were then installed 
on the refrigerant lines to measure refrigerant pressures. Thermocouples were installed to provide 
refrigerant line temperatures for the purpose of calculating superheat. Airflow was measured and 
verified within 5% of a rate of 400 CFM per ton. The measurement methodology for air-flow included 
utilizing a NIST certified hot wire anemometer as defined per ASHRAE 37-2009 section  
 
