®
3
Energy Conservation Method (ECM)
The content detailed in this report will first demonstrate the ability of the pilot chiller to perform prior to the 
PermaFrost NMR® (ECM) being installed, as well as illustrate the amount of thermal degradation due in large 
part to thermal degradation within the heat exchangers (evaporator and condenser barrels).  
The following report lists the results of using the IPMVP as the M&V plan. 
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following applicable thermodynamic engineering 
formulas:
 
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
 
• Actual Cooling Tons per Hour = Evaporator GPM X 8.34 * 60 * Chilled Water Delta T / 12,000 BTU 
 
• Refrigerant Approach = Supply Water Temp – Suction Temp of Evaporator (CH) 
Notes 
Following a diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment to determine the operational condition of the systems, it was 
determined that the chiller had a much higher volume of water flowing through it than design so the team adjusted it 
downward to OEM specifications. With all other chiller conditions deemed satisfactory, Baseline M&V data was collected 
and recorded by the M&V team. 
Three weeks after installation of the PermaFrost NMR®, the M&V 
team returned to take Post M&V measurements in the identical 
fashion as in the Baseline. The delta of these measurements and 
associated calculations show the amount of capacity restored.
The data in both the baseline and post periods was collected by 
[Client Representative] Associates via the Pharma Company B system and installed 
HOBO power meter. Powertron Global also collected information 
directly from the chiller panel while the chiller was running under 
identical operational conditions. All readings were witnessed by 
Major US Telecom technicians. Photographic evidence of the measurements 
is included in this report. The measurements are listed below. 
M&V team works to adjust flow 
rates through the chiller’s 
evaporator and condenser barrels, 
restoring them to within 2% of 
HVAC Equipment Manufacturer design specifications before 
recording all the baseline readings.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
