®
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Report
Purpose of Energy Eﬃciency Study
The purpose of this study is to verify the industry wide problem of efficiency loss in HVAC/R systems as 
projected by ASHRAE research and to quantify the amount of money wasted due to this loss. Many industry 
leading organizations including ASHRAE project that all HVAC/R systems degrade in capacity and efficiency 
as they age. Thermal degradation is caused by a phenomenon that is present in all HVAC/R equipment that 
operates as a vapor compression cycle associated with refrigerant and compressor lubricant. This thermal 
degradation is well documented by the HVAC/R industry and the original equipment manufacturers (OEM’s). 
Thermal degradation prevents systems from operating at the original design efficiency, which leads to excessive 
run-times and additional kWh consumption.
The chiller in this study is representative of a great majority of the portfolio of data center and central office 
equipment operated by Major US Telecom. If thermal degradation is present in this chiller, it is present in the entire 
inventory of equipment. Energy waste can be calculated based on this equipment (portfolio representation) and 
then accurately extrapolated across the entire inventory of equipment.
Similarly, if the lost efficiency of this chiller can 
be restored, it would allow Major US Telecom to keep it in 
service longer without sacrificing performance 
or energy consumption. It will also provide 
Major US Telecom the flexibility of a much wider window 
of time wherein to undertake the costly capital 
expense of replacing this and other HVAC/R 
systems when they do eventually reach the end 
of their useful life.   
1
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
