®
2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of one of four main chillers 
that support the Major US Telecom Elmsford Data Center. 
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the pilot chiller before and after the 
installation of the ECM to determine the impact on the three key elements that greatly affect Major US Telecom’s HVAC 
power bill as they relate to the original design specifications:
 
 
1.  The cooling capacity the chiller is capable of producing after 14 years in service. 
 
2.  The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the chiller is delivering as 
 
     reflected in the kW/ton measurement. 
 
3.  The thermal dynamic ability of the chiller to still perform at or close to operational design.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the IPMVP 
(International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework using both instantaneous power reading and 
long term power readings with the chiller performing under similar operational and load conditions. 
The M&V team was led by [Client Representative] of [Client Representative] Associates, with support from [Senior Energy Engineer], 
Director of Engineering for Powertron Global®. Major US Telecom personnel overseeing the pilot and supporting the 
M&V team on site included [Special Projects Manager], [Sr. Facility Engineer] and [Facilities Engineer]. The overall project was managed and 
directed by [Facility Manager], Sr. Program Manager for Major US Telecom Corporate Special Projects.  
 
Notes 
Both the baseline and post readings were taken at 49% load with incoming condenser water within a degree of 78 degrees 
and incoming chilled water at 53 degrees, therefore no adjustments were made to the resulting data. Major US Telecom’s 
management of the chiller plant combined with the building load during the trial provided more than an adequate heat load 
on the facility to ensure the chiller would remain running during the actual data collection period.  
The chiller was tested over the span of three weeks while operating at an average of 49% motor load. This is the minimum 
amount of time the PermaFrost NMR® ECM requires in a chiller of this size to produce maximum results, therefore 
Major US Telecom can expect to continue to see continued improvements over the next month. The boundary of the testing was the 
chiller and nothing else therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance calculations is very high.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
