®
4
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Study Results
Calculated Eﬃciency of African Telecom Provider B DXC Baseline and Post
The measurements taken show just how far off design the African Telecom Provider B pilot DXC had already degraded in 
terms of efficiency over six (6) years of use. This same pilot DXC was determined to be performing at an 
average of 70% of the original design efficiency in the baseline. The actual design rated tonnage of the DXC is 
67 kWR. In actuality, the DXC was only producing a total of 46.77 kWR of cooling at the start of the pilot. The 
majority of this 30% efficiency loss is directly attributable to the thermal degradation of the heat exchange 
surfaces over a short period of time. This is due in large part to thermal degradation which creates an insulating barrier 
to heat transfer on the tube walls (inside the tube on a direct expansion chiller and outside the tube on a 
flooded evaporator chiller).  
After the ECM was installed, the average efficiency in the DXC increased to 93.85% of design specifications, 
equating to 59.08 kWR. The restoration of 12.31 kWR  represents a 26.3% increase in capacity.   
 
Cost to African Telecom Provider B to Operate the DXC Baseline vs Post
The degraded capacity described above prior to PermaFrost NMR® being implemented was costing African Telecom Provider B a similar amount in the way of wasted energy each hour the DXC was operating. The average cost to 
operate the pilot DXC as calculated in kWE/kWR was 0.43 in the Baseline. When new, the kWE/kWR rating for 
units like these usually ranges from 0.32 – 0.35 kW/kWR when the proper sized ducting is used.
 
The restored average kW/kWR rating following the ECM is now 0.32. This represents a 25.6% reduction in 
energy costs from the baseline for every ton of cooling produced. This will result in an initial payback period 
(IPP) to African Telecom Provider B of 1.22 years and an internal rate of Return (IRR) of 82.3%. Extrapolated out over just the 
next five (5) years, this ECM project will net African Telecom Provider B a substantial ROI of 411% on their investment. These 
accumulated savings will greatly reduce the eventual CapEx costs to replace the DXC’s when they finally reach 
the end of their useful life.   
 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
