3
Objectives
The four key objectives for this jointly-conducted PermaFrost NMR® pilot study between Commercial Real Estate Developer, HVAC Contractor A 
Enterprises and the Powertron Global Engineering team were all achieved.  They included: 
 
1. Determine that the “as-is” capacity and efficiency of the pilot system supporting the Residential Complex A 
 
    complex had degraded by at least 10% after 15 years in operation.  
 
2. Demonstrate that at least 10% performance improvement in both tonnage and kW/ton occurred in 
 
    the pilot cooling system after being treated with the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. 
 
3. Demonstrate the ability of the system to produce cooler, drier air as measured in both Dry Bulb and 
 
    Wet Bulb deltas after being installed.  
 
4. To support an effective business case for further deployments of the ECM within the Commercial Real Estate Developer 
 
    portfolio of properties, demonstrate financial benefits associated with efficiency improvements 
 
    realized over the duration of the study. These benefits must be equivalent to a 24-month or less 
 
    payback to Commercial Real Estate Developer on their initial project costs.  
The cooling system involved in the study is recorded as follows:
 
York, Mfg date: 2000, R22, 480 volt-3 Phase, Model D2SK120A46
ECM Product Brief
PermaFrost NMR® is a multi-patented surface science nanotechnology that uses Nucleo Molecular 
Regenerative (NMR®) technology as its core agent. A sustainable, one-time treatment with no down time 
required, PermaFrost NMR® lasts for the remaining life of any type of climate control system in which it is 
installed.  The direct benefits of PermaFrost NMR® are improved cooling efficiency and increased capacity. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
