PermaFrost NMR® Performance Report
Major Spice Manufacturer & Company
September 22, 2012
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® at the Major Spice Manufacturer & Company facility located in Hunt Valley, MD.  Detailed 
forensic performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on a nominal 50-ton water cooled 
package unit using R22 refrigerant serving the 4th floor of the facility.  Following testing, the unit was 
treated with the proper amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® product formulated for DX systems.
  
The substantial improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly at the unit was solely 
attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The unit now provides cooler supply air with greater efficiency 
due to the restoration of the heat transfer ability of the evaporator and condenser coils, both of which have a 
direct correlation to an increase in the number of Btuh the machine is now capable of producing. 
 
Total system efficiency across the pilot unit improved by 32.3%, while the EER rating of the unit rose by 
39.9%.  There was an overall increase in coil capacity of 166,500 Btuh, equating to the restoration of 13.9 tons 
of capacity or 32.2%.  There is also a reduction of 28.6% in both total power and watts per ton, which is 
another measurable way to view the thermodynamic enhancement of the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The 
result of the average ECM improvements is an ROI to Major Spice Manufacturer & Company of just 10.1 months based on 
the runtime information provided by the on-site senior mechanical technician.  The tables of data and 
financial calculations are available for review at the end of this report.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
