Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces.
 
Following a diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment to 
determine the operational condition of the chiller was satisfactory, 
Baseline M&V was recorded on both the evaporator and compressor 
and then the proper amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® was 
injected. The gestation period for the Global IT Services Provider pilot was seven 
(7) weeks. Prior to taking AERP measurements, systems need to 
achieve ~300 hours of runtime to ensure adequate performance 
improvement time. At the end of this gestation period, AERP M&V 
results were taken in the identical manner as in the baseline. When 
analyzing all of the baseline and AERP data it was discovered that the 
outside air temperature entering the condenser and affecting its 
performance was 5.2 degrees C higher in the AERP so standard 
adjustments were made to account for this common in-situ HVAC 
testing situation. 
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP as the 
M&V plan. 
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
kWE = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
Tonnes = (LPM * 0.585 * 60 * Chilled Water Delta T) / 3520 (which equals 1 kWR) 
 
kWE /Tonne = kWE / Actual Tonnage 
 
Coeﬃcient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kWE per tonne /3.412)
Energy Science Division
The Redbase Service Manager (HVAC Equipment Manufacturer 
Distributor) collects critical IPMVP 
measurements using the latest, most 
accurate digital NIST calibrated testing 
equipment directly at the chiller as part of 
the scientific PermaFrost NRM® pilot.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
