Energy Science Division
report, it should be noted that as a result of excessive water flow through the chiller (45-50% higher than 
design) in both baseline period and avoided energy reporting period (AERP) the resulting pressure drops 
were nearly twice that of design. These field conditions also result in lower than design temperature deltas. 
However, this pilot is all about showing the delta effects resulting from improving the thermal dynamic 
characteristics of the chiller which are clearly evident in the data stated below.   
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, the chiller showed an effective 32.3% 
reduction in kWE/tonne based on the exact capacity measured in the baseline M&V and AERP M&V 
periods when operating at 80% load. The effective annual kWh was reduced by 104,000 kWh, equating to a 
32.1% reduction, while simultaneously producing an average increase of 6.55 tonnes or 27%. Prior to the 
ECM, the chiller produced 24.25 tonnes of cooling as measured in-situ. After the ECM, the average 
combined tonnage produced increased to 30.8 tonnes. This 27% capacity increase from the baseline 
performance levels in combination with other related improvements led to an effective increase in COP of 
47.8%. All of these factors directly correlate to what Global IT Services Provider will realize in energy savings as they 
operate this and the thirty-two other similar campus chillers in the future under similar parameters.
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, the chiller also showed a significant reduction 
in amp draw of 13.5% and a 25% reduction in the refrigeration approach while at the same time producing 
more cooling. All the measurements mentioned combine to reflect the thermodynamic enhancement 
brought about by the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. The result of the ECM improvement is an ROI to Dimension 
Data that is measured in just over one year. When the projected energy rebates are factored in, the ROI 
drops to well under one year. The tables of data used to determine the financial payback are available for 
review at the end of this report. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
