PermaFrost NMR® Performance Report
Global IT Services Provider Campus - Chiller  
October, 2013 
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® into one of thirty-three HVAC Equipment Manufacturer chillers supporting the Global IT Services Provider Campus. 
Located at 52 Sloane Road in Sandton, Johannesburg. The beautiful sprawling business campus is owned 
and operated by Global IT Services Provider of South Africa. This particular HVAC Equipment Manufacturer air cooled chiller using R22 
refrigerant provides cooling for one of the many multi-story buildings making up the Campus. Detailed 
forensic performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the pilot chiller to determine 
its suitability for testing and its performance capability after 13 years in service. Following testing, the chiller 
was treated with the proper amount and type of the PermaFrost NMR® technology specially formulated for 
these types of machines. 
Measurement and Verification (M&V) readings 
were conducted pre-installation and post-gestation 
by the Service Director at Redbase Services cc 
(HVAC Equipment Manufacturer distributor) under the direction of Nick 
Caldwell, General Manager, Global IT Services Provider along 
with their consulting company, AConsult. Ed 
[Senior Energy Engineer], Director of Engineering for Powertron 
Global® validated that all data was collected and 
compiled in accordance with the IPMVP 
(International Measurement and Verification 
Protocol) framework. 
The improvement in efficiency and restored 
capacity gained directly at the chiller was solely 
attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This is 
a result of the reversal of thermal inefficiency on heat 
exchange surfaces. As you read through this 
Energy Science Division
The project team for the Global IT Services Provider PermaFrost NMR pilot 
included multiple companies which are represented from left to 
right: Services Director, Redbase Services cc (HVAC Equipment Manufacturer distributor); 
Director Global Business, Powertron Global (OEM for PermaFrost 
NMR); Managing Director South Africa, Powertron Global; 
Director of Engineering, Powertron Global; and representing 
Global IT Services Provider, Managing Director, AConsult.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
