Energy Science Division
Conclusion
The improved efficiency (kW per ton) at the unit at full load was 8.8%; a 10.7% reduction in required 
operating tonnage to deliver set point; a 8.8% reduction in kW/ton; an 9.6% improvement in COP; 4.6% 
reduction in kW. The improvement in the refrigerant approach, a measurable thermodynamic enhancement 
of PermaFrost NMR®, at 55.6%. These results are highly significant. This chiller not only provides chilled 
water at the rated GPM and design chilled water outlet temperature at reduced kWh and cost, it also does 
this at a greater tonnage per kW. This allows the chiller to produce more tonnage at less energy. 
The introduction of PermaFrost NMR® has restored a significant amount of chilled water performance to 
support this facility, which has resulted in much lower operational costs.
Based on the data collected, the return on investment (ROI) for this ECM is just 11.5 months.
A regression analysis was required to compensate for the increase in the incoming condenser water 
temperature. During the baseline the temperature was 74.1 deg. F. During the avoided energy reporting 
period or the post data period the entering condenser water was 78.8 deg. F. 
During baseline and the post periods the chiller was operating at full load and with the identical GPM 
across the evaporator. There was a recorded increase of 6% in the kW category and a reduction of 10% in 
capacity. An analysis was performed of the actual temperature increase in degrees F of the water and the 
reduction of capacity and the increase of energy. 
The condenser water temperature increase is 6% and the energy increase is also 6%. The direct correlation of 
the increase in energy is attributed to the increase in condenser operating temperatures. As a result the post 
energy reporting data was adjusted for this predicted variable.
The increase in condenser water temp is also attributable to the reduction in capacity from the 1007 tons 
measured in the baseline when the entering condenser water was 4.8 degrees cooler. This decrease in 
capacity is approximately 10% and resets the capacity in the post energy period to 989 tons as a result of the 
warmer water in the condenser. This capacity was adjusted as a non routine variable.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
