PermaFrost NMR® Performance Report
Regional Hospital A
July, 2013 
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® in the DX split system supporting the fitness center within the Newark 
Regional Hospital A (Hospital A) at [Commercial Address], Newark, NJ. Detailed forensic performance testing (outlined 
later in this report) was performed on the nominal 15-ton split system using R410A refrigerant. Following 
testing, the system was treated with the proper amount and type of the PermaFrost NMR® technology 
specially formulated for this type of system. Measurement and Verification (M&V) was conducted 
pre-installation and post-gestation. 
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity 
gained directly at the system was solely attributable to the 
PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This is a result of the reversal of 
thermal inefficiency on heat exchange surfaces.  
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® 
technology, the relatively new 33-month old system 
showed an effective net 11.6% reduction in kW/ton based 
on the exact capacity measured in the baseline M&V and 
the post gestation M&V. With the 15-ton system operating 
at 100%, it showed a 14.1% reduction in kWh while 
simultaneously producing an increase in system efficiency of 18.1%. Prior to the ECM, the system produced 
13.29 tons of cooling. After the ECM, the tonnage produced by the system increased to 15.69 tons. This 
18.1% average capacity increase from the baseline performance level led to an effective average increase in 
COP of 13.1%. All of these factors directly correlate to what Hospital A will realize in energy savings as they 
operate the system in the future under the same parameters.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
