Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content of the following report will demonstrate the effects of PermaFrost NMR®’s ability to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces. 
It was determined with Pharma Company B to treat 1 water-cooled chiller.  A diagnostic examination of the 
pilot equipment is implemented to determine if the unit’s operational conditions are satisfactory. Baseline 
measurements will be recorded and then the proper amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® will be injected.  
The product will be allowed 4 weeks to seat itself into the metal surfaces before post measurements were 
taken to establish the efficiency gains. 
The unit was fully loaded during the baseline and the in the Energy Reporting Periods.  The following 
parameters during a five-minute steady state period were recorded:
Chiller kW, Chilled Water Delta T, Condenser Water Delta T, Condensed Liquid Refrigerant Temperature, 
Saturated (Suction) Evaporator Refrigerant Temperature, Operating Tonnage, kW per Ton and COP.
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
•  To determine the kW, voltage, amperage and power factor were recorded using a digital kW meter.  Data 
from that meter is automatically calculated. Those data streams were verified by the manual calculation for 
determining kW energy as:
 
Volts * Amps * .85 * 1.732 / 1000
•  To determine the actual GPM the following formula was utilized:
 
GPM2 = GPM * Measured Pressure Drop (ft) / by Design Pressure Drop (ft) (squared)
•  To determine the Actual Cooling Tons per Hour the following formula was utilized:
 
Evaporator GPM X 8.34 * 60 * Chilled Water Delta T / 12,000 BTU
•  To determine the Operating kW per Ton the following formula was utilized:
 
Actual kW / Actual Tonnage
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
