®
2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of two chillers that support 
the Military Installation CMF 6050 in Pineville, LA 
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the pilot chillers before and after 
the installation of the ECM to determine the impact on the three key elements that greatly affect the HVAC 
power bill as they relate to the original design specifications:
 
 
1.  The cooling capacity the chillers produce after 10 years in service, before and after the 
 
     administration of the ECM. 
 
2.  The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the chillers can deliver as 
 
     reflected in the kW/ton measurement, before and after the administration of the ECM. 
 
3.  The thermal dynamic ability of the chillers to perform in relation to operational design, before and 
 
     after the administration of the ECM.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team consisted Captain Jeremy 
A. Futrell and [Infrastructure Consultant] & [Client Representative] of Infrastructure Contractor. 
Notes
The equipment tested (2) RTAA-100 air-cooled chillers manufactured by HVAC Equipment Manufacturer.  Both the baseline and post measurement 
s were taken with outside air temperatures of 81-82 degrees.  
The flow rate through the evaporators were nearly identical in the baseline and post and the return chilled water entering 
the chiller in the baseline and post were identical so no adjustments were made.
The boundary of the testing was the chillers and nothing else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance 
calculations is very high.
 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
