®
1
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Report
Purpose of Energy Eﬃciency Study
The purpose of this jointly-conducted ECM study between the Caribbean Telecom Provider and PTG engineering teams was threefold.  
First, to verify the current capacity and efficiency of two 105.5 kWR cooling units supporting critical Caribbean Telecom Provider 
operations in relation to original equipment manufacturer (OEM) design specifications.  Second, to demonstrate 
what, if any, material performance changes occur in these same cooling units after being treated with PermaFrost 
NMR® ECM.  And third, to determine what, if any, financial benefits are associated with any efficiency 
improvements realized.  
The identification of cooling units involved in the study is recorded as follows:
• 105.5 kWR Emerson/Liebert CRAC, Mfg date: 2012, R407C, 408 volt-3 Phase, Model DS105ASMOEI5OIA
• 105.5 kWR Peake Split, Mfg date: 2007, HydroCarbon (HC), 408 volt-3 Phase, Model PCC360S3355TDM
ECM Product Brief
PermaFrost NMR® is a multi-patented surface science nanotechnology that uses Nucleo Molecular 
Regenerative (NMR®) technology as its core agent. A sustainable, one-time treatment with no down time 
required, PermaFrost NMR® lasts for the remaining life of any type of climate control system in which it is 
installed.  The direct benefits of PermaFrost NMR® are improved cooling efficiency and increased capacity, 
both of which result in lower overall costs to operate a system and extended equipment life. 
Methodology
After verifying the proper amount of air flowing across the evaporator coil before beginning the pilot, the 
subsequent measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with 
the Option B of the IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. 
The results presented below were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic 
engineering formulas:
 
• kWE = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• kWE / kWR = kWE / Actual Measured Capacity 
 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kWE per kWR /3.412)
 
• Actual Cooling Capacity per Hour = (Measured CMH * 4.5 * Enthalpy Delta T) / 12,000 BTU
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
