4
798
1,173
Baseline
Tonnage
Post ECM
Tonnage
• Chillers should be operating @ 1,173 tons of cooling capactity
• Chillers were operating @ 798 tons of cooling capacity prior to
   installing ECM
• Chillers had 375 tons of restored cooling capacity after ECM
   equating to 47% increase
• Chillers should be operating @ 7.72 or higher
• Chillers were operating @ 4.75 COP prior to the ECM
• The average COP of the chillers have increased by 62.5%
   following the ECM
4.75
Baseline COP
COP
798
tons Baseline
CAPACITY
Baseline
COP
Post ECM
COP
4.75
7.72
7.72
Post ECM COP
1,173
Post ECM
62.5%
Improvement
in COP
375
tons of
Restored
 Capacity
TONNAGE
Coeﬃcient of Performance (COP)
Summary of HVAC/R Eﬃciency Study Results 
Chiller Eﬃciency with PermaFrost NMR® ECM
Major Global Bank has the problem of thermal degradation in its Chiller systems. The lower operating tonnage and COP 
ratings measured on site are in line with the ASHRAE loss of performance and cost to operate numbers. The 
degraded equipment performance is costing Major Global Bank Properties significant money and wasting energy. The treated 
chillers were using significantly more energy to operate than when they were new. 
The performance summary includes the measured efficiency and tonnage of the chillers in the baseline and 
post testing periods demonstrating the impact of thermal degradation. 
The implementation of PermaFrost NMR® ECM resulted in a restoration of 375 operating tons and an average 
improvement of 62.5% in Coefficient of Performance (COP), significantly reducing the cost to operate the 
chiller throughout the year.
This report is provided to Major Global Bank. It is confidential and proprietary of Powertron Global®, LLC. 
Its contents are subject to a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement. The terms of use are 
available at www.powertronglobal.com. The report is not to be distributed to any third party without written consent of Powertron Global®, LLC.
