1
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Report
Purpose of Energy Eﬃciency Study
The purpose of this study is to verify the industry wide problem of efficiency loss in HVAC/R as projected by 
ASHRAE research and to quantify the amount of money wasted due to this loss. Many industry leading 
organizations including ASHRAE project that all HVAC/R units degrade in capacity and efficiency as they 
age. Thermal degradation is caused by a phenomenon that is present in all HVAC/R equipment that operates 
as a vapor compression cycle associated with refrigerant and compressor lubricant. This thermal degradation is 
well documented by the HVAC/R industry and the original equipment manufacturers (OEM’s). Thermal 
degradation prevents units from operating at the original design efficiency, which leads to excessive run-times 
and additional kWh consumption.
The chillers in this study is representative of their portfolio of chiller equipment operated by Major Global Bank. If thermal 
degradation is present in these chillers, it is present in the entire inventory of equipment. Energy waste can be 
calculated based on this equipment (portfolio representation) and then accurately extrapolated across the entire 
inventory of equipment.
.
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of three (3) chillers that 
support the Major Global Bank location in Mississauga, Ontario.
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on each chiller before and after the 
installation of the ECM to determine the impact on the three key elements:
 
1.  The cooling capacity the chiller produces after 10 years in service, before and after the administration 
     of the ECM. 
2.  The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the chiller can deliver as 
     reflected in the kW/ton measurement, before and after the administration of the ECM. 
3.  The thermal dynamic ability of the chiller to perform in relation to operational design, before and 
     after the administration of the ECM.
This report is provided to Major Global Bank. It is confidential and proprietary of Powertron Global®, LLC. 
Its contents are subject to a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement. The terms of use are 
available at www.powertronglobal.com. The report is not to be distributed to any third party without written consent of Powertron Global®, LLC.
