Real Estate Capital Firm A PermaFrost NMR® Performance Report
Two Rooftop Packaged Units in Las Vegas Oﬃce Park
October 7, 2012
Executive Summary
        This report contains specific information regarding the detailed forensic performance testing (outlined 
later in this report) of the energy control measure (ECM) PermaFrost NMR® in Suite 170 in Building 6 of the 
Office Park A in Las Vegas, NV.  The two 5-ton HVAC Equipment Manufacturer packaged rooftop units supporting the facility 
use R-22 refrigerant.  Both of the pilot units were installed in June of 2004 and are estimated to run 
approximately 3,050 hours per year. Immediately following the baseline testing, both units were treated 
with five ounces of the PermaFrost NMR® product specially formulated for R-22 DX systems.  
Since there were no other ECM’s going on during this pilot project, the improvement in efficiency and 
restored capacity gained directly at the units is solely attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The pilot 
units now provide colder and drier supply air and more Btu’s while using less power.  This greater 
operational efficiency is due to the restoration of the heat transfer ability of the evaporator and condenser 
coils, less metal to metal friction and improved refrigerant flow.  
Since the outside air temperatures and humidity were almost identical in the baseline and post reporting 
periods, as were the return air temperatures from inside the space, no adjustment for weather were made to 
the resulting numbers.
Following treatment with PermaFrost NMR® the two pilot units showed an average 22.7% reduction in 
Total Watts and a 14.7% reduction in Amps while at the same time producing an increase in capacity of 
11,340 Btuh or 11.1% more tonnage.  The units also showed a substantial reduction in Watts/Ton of 22.7% 
and an 11.1% improvement in the Enthalpy Delta.  Additionally, the two pilot units showed an average of 
29.7% improvement in EER, which is another measurable way to view the thermodynamic enhancement of 
the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The result of the average ECM improvements is an ROI to Real Estate Capital Firm A of just 
18.3 months. The tables of data and financial calculations are available for review at the end of this report.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
