 
 
 
The	  Measurement	  and	  Verification	  (M&V)	  protocol	  defined	  the	  boundary	  by	  
isolating	  the	  entry	  and	  departure	  points	  of	  the	  medium	  being	  cooled	  to	  determine	  
cooling	  performance	  and	  comparing	  that	  with	  the	  power	  being	  used	  to	  quantify	  
the	  power	  costs	  per	  unit	  of	  cooling,	  kW/Ton	  (kilowatt-­‐per-­‐ton),	  EER	  (Energy	  
Efficiency	  Ratio)	  and	  COP	  (Co-­‐Efficient	  of	  Performance).	  
	  
	  
2.	  	  	  	  	  General	  Findings	  
The	  return	  air	  velocity	  was	  very	  deficient	  as	  a	  result	  of	  the	  absence	  of	  outdoor	  air	  
entry	  economizers.	  They	  were	  provided	  when	  these	  units	  were	  manufactured	  
however	  the	  economizer	  on	  unit	  05-­‐3943	  (VIP	  6)	  was	  completely	  removed	  and	  the	  
economizer	  for	  unit	  05-­‐3942	  (VIP	  7)	  was	  not	  active.	  Due	  to	  the	  operation	  of	  the	  
kitchen	  exhaust	  hoods	  this	  is	  the	  preferred	  method	  of	  supplying	  the	  restaurant	  
with	  filtered	  and	  conditioned	  air	  volume.	  	  
Per	  design,	  the	  setup	  included	  outdoor	  air	  entry	  hoods	  with	  opposing	  blade	  
dampers.	  Unit	  05-­‐3942	  (VIP	  7)	  had	  an	  outdoor	  air	  entry	  hood,	  however,	  the	  
damper	  was	  closed	  with	  a	  non-­‐functional	  fastener.	  Unit	  05-­‐3943	  (VIP	  6)	  air	  entry	  
hood	  was	  removed.	  The	  data	  measured	  was	  insufficient	  to	  determine	  the	  units’	  pre	  
or	  base	  cooling	  capacity.	  With	  this	  absence	  of	  outdoor	  entry	  air,	  the	  restaurant	  air	  
pressure	  condition	  was	  negative,	  which	  contributes	  to	  the	  compromised	  indoor	  air	  
quality	  as	  well	  as	  creating	  additional	  building	  load	  for	  the	  RTUs.	  
Grupo	  QSR Franchise A	  technicians	  subsequently	  repaired	  unit	  05-­‐3942	  (VIP	  7)	  damper	  and	  
installed	  a	  new	  hood	  and	  damper	  for	  unit	  05-­‐3943(VIP	  6).	  However,	  total	  air	  
velocity	  could	  not	  reach	  full	  potential.	  Further	  diagnoses	  revealed	  that	  the	  arriving	  
air	  was	  being	  hindered	  due	  to	  the	  supply	  air	  fan	  discharge	  not	  being	  aligned	  with	  
the	  down	  ductwork.	  It	  had	  not	  been	  changed	  from	  the	  previously	  installed	  RTU	  
brand,	  meaning	  that	  new	  curb	  adapters	  were	  required.	  It	  was	  decided	  to	  replace	  
them	  once	  current	  testing	  was	  complete.	  
	  
	  
3.	  	  	  	  	  Method	  of	  Procedure	  for	  testing:	  
 
The	  cooling	  production	  of	  HVAC/R	  systems	  are	  realized	  by	  measuring	  the	  total	  
(kW)	  energy	  consumed	  and	  the	  total	  BTU	  (British	  Thermal	  Unit)	  production	  
(Tons)	  to	  obtain	  kW	  per	  ton,	  EER	  (energy	  efficient	  ratio)	  and	  COP	  (coefficient	  of	  
performance)	  to	  calculate	  the	  total	  BTUH	  (BTU/Hour)	  cooling	  production.	  Power	  
(kW)	  is	  derived	  by	  measuring	  voltages,	  amperages	  and	  power	  factor.	  Cooling	  
capacity	  is	  derived	  by	  measuring	  temperatures,	  pressures	  and	  air	  velocity	  or	  flows.	  
Grupo	  QSR Franchise A’s	  RTUs	  were	  fitted	  with	  an	  Internet	  of	  Things	  (IoT)	  based	  M&V	  
platform	  to	  measure	  and	  compare	  thirty-­‐five	  (35)	  key	  required	  data	  points	  (see	  
appendix)	  sampled	  every	  thirty	  (30)	  milliseconds	  for	  a	  pre	  or	  baseline	  period	  of	  
performance	  from	  6-­‐13	  February	  2017	  and	  a	  post	  period	  from	  7-­‐14	  March	  2017.	  
