®
2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure (ECM) 
PermaFrost NMR® into one (1) Carrier water-cooled ice rink chiller located in Oak Bluffs, Island Location A, 
MA. 
Detailed forensic performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on this unit owned by Island Location A Arena 
to determine three key elements that Island Location A Arena should be concerned with as they relate to the original design 
specifications: 
1.  Current btuh capacity of the equipment in service with the installed PermaFrost NMR® ECM.
2.  Actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling the chiller is delivering as reflected in the 
     kW/ton measurement. 
3.  Mechanical soundness of the chiller and its ability to still perform at or close to operational design.
Following testing, the chiller was treated with the proper amount and type of the PermaFrost NMR® 
technology specially formulated for this type of system.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. NIST (National Institutes of 
Standards & Technology) calibrated devices where used for the highest level of accuracy and data integrity. 
IPMVP is the industry standard according to the US Department of Energy. Because of its wide international 
adoption, the IPMVP has been identified as the best Measurement and Verification (M&V) Framework for 
helping to determine and secure financial compensation for emissions reductions resulting from Energy 
Conservation Methods (ECM).
M&V was conducted to establish an initial energy baseline and a post avoided energy-reporting period. The 
purpose of the testing was to show how the ECM improves the thermal performance of any system it is 
installed in.
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly at each unit was solely attributable to 
PermaFrost NMR®. This is a result of the reversal of thermal inefficiency on the heat exchanger surfaces.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
