2
Process
This comprehensive report contains specific information regarding the performance profile of the low and 
medium temperature compressors comprising Rack-A which supports the Major US Warehouse Retailer facility in [Florida Location]. 
For this report, detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on each half of Rack 
A before (baseline) and after (post) the installation of the ECM. The data was collected using the Clima-Check 
performance analyzer. This testing determined the impact on three key elements relating to the operational 
performance of the systems prior to the ECM that greatly affect the refrigeration portion of Major US Warehouse Retailer’s power bill. 
They include:
 
1. The cooling capacity required of Rack-A to reach evaporator set points after 11 years in service. 
 
2. The amount of kWh’s used to achieve similar evaporator set points in baseline and post periods. 
 
3. The thermal dynamic ability of the equipment to still perform at or close to operational design.  
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. [Technical Specialist] and [Technical Specialist], 
working in direct coordination with Clima-Check of Sweden, remotely collected and verified all of the pilot 
refrigeration measurements. All of the temperature and pressure sensors were installed with support from 
Refrigeration Contractor A, Major US Warehouse Retailer’s refrigeration support contractor.  
The Clima-Check performance analyzer is specifically designed to monitor thermal dynamic and power efficiency 
performance improvement in all types of HVAC and refrigeration systems instantaneously and over time. 
For this pilot, ten days of data was collected prior to Rack-A being treated with the PermaFrost NMR® ECM 
on 10 May 2014. The ECM was then allowed to work for a period of at least 400+ hours before any post 
collection data was compared to the baseline data. 
 
To reduce the impact the store and weather variables may have on the data, two similar periods of time with 
similar outside air temperatures and time of day were chosen to compare refrigeration performance before 
and after the ECM. These comparisons included:
Tuesday 8 April (75.5°) & Tuesday 29 April (77.2°), 1AM – 5AM (no activity in store)
Monday 7 April (79.3°) & Monday 5 May (80.6°), 10AM – 9PM (full day of operations)
The boundary of the testing was the low and medium temperature compressors and nothing else; therefore 
the performance calculations are extremely accurate.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
