 
 
C. 
GENERAL FINDINGS 
 
1. Method of Procedure for testing: 
 
The objective of measuring the overall cooling production of HVAC systems can 
be realized by measuring the total energy consumed by the specific unit being 
tested and the total BTU production of the system then calculating these 
parameters to obtain kW per ton, EER (energy efficient ratio) and COP 
(coefficient of performance) Using that information the total BTUH of cooling 
production can be realized. The objective of measuring overall power consumed 
by an HVAC system can be realized by measuring voltage, amperage and power 
factor.  
 
For these specific HVAC systems many parameters were measured every two 
seconds for a period of seven (7) days for the development of a scientific 
baseline of performance and a post period of seven (7) days for the development 
of a scientific post analysis of performance. Data was extracted from the 
parameters measured every five (5) seconds during the normal operating hours 
of 9am to 5pm.  
 
Total BTUH was developed along with total kW consumption by measuring all 
required data points (13 points see appendix for points measured) and entering 
them into industry best practice engineering formulae. All measurement hardware 
was certified under NIST or CE standards. Engineering formulae was developed 
by AHRI / ASHRAE (American Heating and Refrigeration Institute / American 
Society of Heating Refrigeration & Air Conditioning Engineers) 
 
During regular business hours the outdoor air temperature entering the air-cooled 
condenser coils of each unit will affect the design capacity. Therefore we have 
provided baseline and post analysis of the seven (7) day periods at several 
outdoor air temperature intervals so as to provide the comparison of improved 
capacity and subsequent kW per ton, EER and COP across a variation of 
outdoor air temperatures consisting of a eleven (11) degree span (80-90 degrees 
F). 
 
D.   
CONCLUSION 
 
Testing validates that the PermaFrost NMR product does improve HVAC/R 
energy efficiency when added to the refrigerant circuit of a cooling system. 
 
ASHRAE estimates that air-conditioning will lose 30% of its cooling capacity due 
to the build-up of lubricants on internal surfaces. Higher percentages up to 40% 
have been observed in systems that have extremely high runtimes.  
 
