!
Purpose of the Study
This report details the results of the recently completed comprehensive energy performance study conducted at 
two Baltimore City sponsored locations: The Maryland Center for Veterans Education & Training (MCVET) and The 
Non-Profit Organization.  The study ran from July 14 to September 4, 2015.
 
The pilot was designed to illustrate the positive impact the PermaFrost NMR® energy control measure (ECM) 
would have on the overall cooling performance of two common types of cooling units supporting the facilities. 
The improvements for this or any ﬁeld test resulting from PermaFrost NMR® are dependent on factors such as 
age, condition, service history, design and application of each unit. In this particular pilot, the results were very 
consistent with 13 year historical performance averages as well as the recent laboratory study completed in May 
of 2015 by Underwriters Laboratories in their testing chambers in [Texas Location], TX. 
A package rooftop unit was tested and treated at the MCVET facility. At the Non-Profit Organization, a small split system 
serving the 2nd ﬂoor common area was tested and treated. In this facility, the team also tested but did not treat an 
identical small split system serving the 3rd ﬂoor common area. Though no two pieces of cooling equipment are 
identical nor do they get the same amount of runtime, in this case the 3rd ﬂoor split system acted as a control unit 
of sorts.  All the units involved in the pilot were put into full service in 2000. 
Highlights of the study when comparing the pilot unit to itself before and six weeks after treatment include the 
following:
 
• When initially tested after 15 years in service, the MCVET pilot unit was producing 11.14 tons of cooling. 
 
   Six weeks after treatment, the cooling capacity jumped 30.1% to 14.6 tons. 
 
 
• The cost to produce each ton of cooling on the MCVET pilot unit dropped 19.6% from 1.07 kW/ton in 
 
   the baseline to .86 kW/ton six weeks after treatment. 
 
 
• When initially tested after 15 years in service, the Non-Profit Organization pilot unit was producing 2.59 tons of 
 
   cooling. Six weeks after treatment, the cooling capacity jumped 27.6% to 3.31 tons. 
 
 
• The cost to produce each ton of cooling on the Non-Profit Organization pilot unit dropped 35% from 1.17 kW/ton 
 
   in the baseline to .76 kW/ton six weeks after treatment. 
 
 
• When comparing the Non-Profit Organization treated pilot unit to the identical untreated control unit, the pilot 
 
   unit is now producing 3.31 tons of cooling at just .76 kW per ton. By comparison, the control unit is  
 
   producing 2.84 tons at 1.04 kW/ton. These numbers represent an increase in tonnage of .47 tons or  
 
   16.5% while the cost to produce each ton of cooling is 26.9% less expensive in the pilot unit. 
 
• The initial payback period for treating the MCVET pilot unit equates to 14.2 months while the initial 
 
   payback period for treating the Non-Profit Organization pilot unit is just 9.6 months. 
 
• The annual combined cost to operate the two pilot units prior to treatment with PermaFrost NMR® was 
 
   estimated to be $6,713. Six weeks following treatment the cost to operate the units fell to $5,194. 
2
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
