!
Methodology
After verifying the amount of air ﬂowing across the evaporator coil before beginning the pilot, the subsequent 
measurements used in the efﬁciency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with Option B of 
the IPMVP (International Measurement and Veriﬁcation Protocol) framework. 
The results presented below were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic 
engineering formulas:
 
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of .85/1000 (for 1-Phase)
 
• kW/ton = Actual Measured Energy / Actual Measured Capacity 
 
• Coefﬁcient of Performance (COP) = 12 / (kW/ton) /3.412
 
• Actual Cooling Capacity per Hour = (Measured CFM * 4.5 * Enthalpy Delta T) / 12,000 BTU
Recovered Unit Cost with PermaFrost NMR® ECM
The “Unit Cost” in the HVAC industry is the kw/ton ratio. kW/ton is commonly used for larger commercial and 
industrial air-conditioning, heat pump and refrigeration systems. It is the HVAC industry’s standard of determining 
how much energy is required to create 1 ton of cooling (i.e., conditioned air). When you reduce your unit cost of 
cooling you are saving energy regardless of how much overall cooling you require.
Like everyone in the world, Baltimore City has the 
problem of thermal degradation in their HVAC units. The 
degraded equipment performance is costing the 
Baltimore City and their tenants’ signiﬁcant operational 
dollars through wasted energy. When initially tested 
before being treated, the pilot cooling units were found 
to already be using signiﬁcantly more energy to operate 
after 15 years in service than when they were new. The 
same thing is true for the untreated control cooling unit 
after 15 years in service.
The chart to the right illustrates the amount of efﬁciency 
restoration the ECM created in the MCVET pilot unit six 
weeks after treatment. 
4
.21 kW/ton
Recovered Energy
Equating to a
19.6% reduction
kW/ton
MCVET Unit Performance Efﬁciency
6 Weeks After Treatment
Initial
Baseline
6-Week
Post
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.07
0.86
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
