!
The package cooling units involved in the study are recorded as follows:
 
York, Mfg date: 2000, R22, 208 volt-3 Phase, Model DM120N20N
 
Majic Air, Mfg date: 2000, R22, 208 volt-1 Phase, Model 38CKC036340   (Treated) 
    
Majic Air, Mfg date: 2000, R22, 208 volt-1 Phase, Model 38CKC036340   (Untreated)
Objectives
The four key objectives for this jointly-conducted ECM pilot study between Baltimore City, Powertron Global 
Engineering team and EnergyEfﬁcient Technologies were all achieved.  They included: 
 
1. Determine that the “as-is” capacity and efﬁciency of the pilot units unit supporting the MCVET and 
 
    Non-Profit Organization facilities had degraded by at least 10% after 15 years in operation.  
 
2. Demonstrate that a minimum of 10% performance improvement occurred in each of the pilot cooling 
 
    units six weeks after being treated with the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.   
 
3. After 15 years in service, demonstrate the effectiveness and sustainability of the ECM by increasing the 
 
    “as-is” efﬁciency and capacity of the treated pilot units by more than 10% when compared to an 
 
    identical untreated control unit performing the same function on another ﬂoor. 
 
4. To support an effective business case for further deployments of the ECM within the Baltimore City 
 
    portfolio of properties, demonstrate ﬁnancial beneﬁts associated with efﬁciency improvements 
 
    realized over the duration of the study. These beneﬁts must be equivalent to a 24-month or less 
 
    payback to Baltimore City on their initial project costs.  
ECM Product Brief
PermaFrost NMR® is a multi-patented surface science nanotechnology that uses Nucleo Molecular Regenerative 
(NMR®) technology as its core agent. A sustainable, one-time treatment with no down time required, PermaFrost 
NMR® lasts for the remaining life of any type of climate control system in which it is installed.  The direct beneﬁts 
of PermaFrost NMR® are improved cooling efﬁciency and increased capacity, both of which result in lower overall 
costs to operate a system and extended equipment life. 
3
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
