After the gestation operating period, an additional data test period know as the AERP (avoided energy 
reporting period), was recorded. This test was identical to the baseline data and included a revivification of the 
chilled water flow of each chiller and identical outdoor air temperatures. Outdoor air temperature is especially 
important for accuracy due to the chiller using air-cooled condensers. At the conclusion of the AERP test period, 
one of the VAV system air handlers was “spot checked” to determine if the condition of excessive chilled water 
flow was in evidence as it was with the chillers. Using the same technique for flow measurement the chilled 
water flow was recorded and 18% over design for the cooling coil. It is worth noting that there are 
thermometers, pressure gauges, pressure and temperature test points, shut off butterfly valves and Nexus style 
water balancing valve assemblies, used in each air handler. 
The air handler tested previously had the leaving chilled water cut off valve adjusted to a 3/4 closed position 
and labeled as set for flow control while the actual water balancing valve was wide open. This condition was 
reversed. The cutoff valve was opened to the full position and the balancing valve was adjusted to the design 
pressure drop. Before this exercise began this air handler was not meeting the leaving air set point. After the 
flow adjustment, the leaving air temperature began to drop. An adjacent air handler was identical in the setting 
of chilled water flow. It is assumed that all air handlers for this facility are setup in this manner. 
Listed below are a few engineering recommendations to further reduce energy use and improve the 
functionality of the HVAC system and the interior environment. 
Recommendations:
1. Employ the use of a reputable test and balance firm. The issues that should be achieved are balance all 
of the air handlers water and air circuits. The water should be balanced to design for each air handler 
with the control valves in the 100% open position. The airflow should be balanced to design with the 
supply air fan in the full speed position with all VAV terminals in the open position. Note that the air 
handler fans have variable speed drives on them. 
(The duct static pressure may be low when all VAV terminals are fully open due to standard engineering 
practice to employ a diversity factor within the design.) 
2. When the air handlers are in the full speed category measure the pressure drop across the chilled 
water-cooling coil.
 3. Verify the operation of the outdoor air energy recovery ventilators. It is not known how many of these 
 that there are in this facility but they all need to be balanced. 
11
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
