Powertron Global’s Forensic Mechanical Engineer learned that the insulation for the chiller evaporators is being 
replaced. It is recommended in the best interest of Community Center A balance the air and water in the air-handlers before the 
insulation is replaced. The return on investment far supersedes the insulation project and, if the insulation 
project is postponed until next year the prices to perform the work will be much lower in February.
Discussions are strongly suggested with the client representative responsible for the operation of the HVAC 
systems after the balancing of the air handlers. These discussions will allow the discovery of new levels of 
efficiency to be realized in the chiller plant that will allow full advantage from PermaFrost NMR®. After the 
“field systems” referring to the air handlers are fully returned to the manufacturers and engineer of record 
design flow of return air, outside air and chilled water, further analysis of the flow characteristics of the chiller 
plant will require verification to determine if a flow reassessment is advantageous. This exercise is one of the 
most important parts of the full benefit of the use of PermaFrost NMR®. Our thermal engineering expertise 
allows our team of engineers to redevelop the usage profile of your systems chilled water usage to meet load 
requirements and to develop complete enthalpy control of the internal environment. Resulting benefits will 
further reduce the use of kW for the purpose of thermal performance delivery from the chiller plant to a fraction 
of the original point of use that was being consumed before the application of the PermaFrost NMR® technology 
process. Please contact us for further analysis and re-commissioning details.
12
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
