Mechanical Balancing & Adjustments
The initial verification of the site operations included meeting with specific management personnel that were 
familiar with the design, functionality and daily operation of the chiller plant and the HVAC Equipment Manufacturer Tracer energy 
management system. The mechanical engineered drawings were reviewed and data from the mechanical 
equipment schedules and sequence of operation were noted. Next the chiller plant was inspected and an initial 
validation of chilled water flow rates thru each chiller was verified. 
This flow test consisted of the measurement of the water pressure drop across the evaporator in feet, utilizing a 
Dwyer wet manometer and comparing the obtained data to the design previously obtained from the “as built" 
engineered drawings. Each of the chillers (3) the chilled water flow amounts were in excess of 20% above the 
design. Excessive chilled water flow routinely will demonstrate poor chiller performance as a result of the lack 
of fluid retention in the evaporator in the form of “off design” delta temperatures. This syndrome of low delta t 
is a common trait found in chilled water circulating systems that cause excessive equipment operation, lack of 
system capacity and higher electrical consumption. 
We adjusted all chiller water flows to design prior to taking baseline data. Data obtained for test purposes and 
or the defining of system capacity must first be commissioned to the manufacturers and engineer of records 
design to accept as valid and useful, and virtually eliminates false positive or false negative input data which 
would render a performance study non valid. 
Commissioning the chilled water flow in each chiller created advantages unavaliable before. On a Sunday 
morning when the worship center and bible study activities were under way (building was subjected to 
substantial load) it was common for three chillers to be operational. After balancing and the installation of 
PermaFrost NMR® this same load scenario is now handled by one chiller. Subsequently as a part of the daily 
load profile when school is in session the one smaller 125 ton chiller is utilized in the early hours before schools 
begins to pre condition the building. This chiller should continue to operate until about 10:30 when the outdoor 
air temp begins to increase then one of the larger chillers will then be called to handle the afternoon load of the 
facility. Additionally, the chillers now run in a modulated fashion versus the full loaded conditions before 
adjustments. Therefore the kW per ton and the recovered system capacity is generating substantial reductions in 
total system operating costs.
After successfully adjusting each chillers chilled water flow to design parameters, the baseline data was 
recorded for each chiller at full load prior to the installation of PermaFrost NMR®. As per design PermaFrost 
NMR® must be allowed to circulate throughout the refrigerant circuits for a period of 350 operational hours to 
allow full gestation of the reaction characteristics of the technology.
10
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
