3
Objectives
The four key objectives for this jointly-conducted PermaFrost NMR® pilot study between Community Center A, BEST, 
Energy Services Partner and the Powertron Global Engineering team were all achieved. They included: 
 
1. Determine that the “as-is” capacity and efficiency of the three pilot systems supporting the 
 
    aforementioned Community Center A facilities had degraded after an average of 10.5 years in operation.  
 
2. Demonstrate that a performance improvement in both tonnage and kW/ton occurred across all three 
 
    of pilot cooling systems after being installed with the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. 
 
3. Demonstrate the ability of each of the units to deliver colder evaporator supply water after being 
 
    treated.  
 
4. To support an effective business case for further deployments of the ECM within the Energy Services Partner 
 
    portfolio of customers, demonstrate financial benefits associated with efficiency improvements 
 
    realized over the duration of the study.
The multiple cooling systems involved in the study are recorded as follows:
 
HVAC Equipment Manufacturer, Mfg date: 2008, R134, Model RTAA1254 (chiller #1)
 
HVAC Equipment Manufacturer, Mfg date: 2001, R134, Model RTAC1554 (chiller #2)
 
HVAC Equipment Manufacturer, Mfg date: 2001, R134, Model RTAC1554 (chiller #3)
ECM Product Brief
PermaFrost NMR® is a multi-patented surface science nanotechnology that uses Nucleo Molecular 
Regenerative (NMR®) technology as its core agent. A sustainable, one-time treatment with no down time 
required, PermaFrost NMR® lasts for the remaining life of any type of climate control system in which it is 
installed.  The direct benefits of PermaFrost NMR® are improved cooling efficiency and increased capacity. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
