Energy Science Division
PermaFrost NMR® Eﬃciency Report
Major Craft Retailer Arts & Crafts Stores - [Texas Location] Beltline Rd Location   
November, 2013 
Report Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy conservation measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® into three (3) package roof top units (RTU’s). The units (#2, #3 and #6) are all the 
same age but are various sizes that each support different parts of the Major Craft Retailer Beltline Road store in [Texas Location], 
TX. Detailed forensic performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the same three 
RTU’s using R22 as the refrigerant. Following testing, each RTU was treated with the proper amount and 
type of the PermaFrost NMR® technology specially formulated for these types of systems.
Measurement and Verification (M&V) was 
conducted pre-installation and post-gestation.
The purpose of the testing was threefold:  
      Demonstrate how the ECM improves the thermal 
      performance. 
      Demonstrate ECM is safe and will not harm 
      Michael’s HVAC equipment.
      Calculate the amount of energy saved per unit by 
      restoring lost eﬃciency.
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity 
gained directly at each RTU was solely attributable 
to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This is a result of 
the successful removal of the accumulated lubricant 
excess layer on heat exchange surfaces.
Following treatment with the ECM, RTU’s #2, #3 and #4 showed a reduction in kW/ton of 24.6%, 28.1%, and 
15% respectively based on the exact capacity measured in the baseline M&V and the post gestation M&V 
when operating at 100% load.   
This 15-ton Lennox package RTU was one of three units involved 
in the pilot. These units help cool the Major Craft Retailer Beltline Road Store 
in [Texas Location].  The image shows several of the NIST-calibrated 
and certified digital instrumentation used to calculate the 
efficiency of each of the three RTU’s in both the Baseline and 
Avoided Energy Reporting Period or Post.
1
2
3
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
