Energy Science Division
(ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to remove the 
accumulated lubricant excess layer on the heat exchange surfaces. 
A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment was implemented to 
determine if the operational conditions of the systems were satisfactory. 
Baseline M&V was recorded on each of the three RTU’s and six 
compressors. Then the proper amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® 
was injected directly into the low pressure service port of the refrigerant 
loop. The gestation period for the Major Craft Retailer pilot was four weeks.
Prior to taking AERP measurements, systems need to achieve at least 
300 or more hours of runtime to ensure adequate performance 
improvement time. At the end of this gestation period, AERP 
measurements were taken in the identical manner as in the baseline, 
taking special care to match the same discharge pressures on the 
compressors as well as the wet bulb and dry bulb temperatures of the 
air entering the respective coils. These are three of the most critical 
variables to contend with in an in-situ HVAC testing situation. When 
analyzing all of the data in the baseline and AERP, no adjustments to 
the data were needed.
The following report produces the utilization of the International Performance Measurement and 
Verification Protocol (IPMVP) as the M&V plan. [Contractor President], President of LVR Mechanical and [Contractor Rep] 
Burr, Operation Manager for LVR Mechanical along with their technicians, collected all of the readings. 
LVR is the mechanical contractor charged with servicing this location. The final calculations were 
performed by Powertron Global®’s Forensic Mechanical Engineer, [Senior Energy Engineer] and signed off by 
Frank Ceniceros, Asst. Store manager for this Major Craft Retailer location. 
Image of the PermaFrost NMR® 
technology prior to installation into the 
low pressure service port on Unit #2. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
