1
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Report
Purpose of Energy Eﬃciency Study
The purpose of this study is to verify the industry wide problem of efficiency loss in HVAC/R as projected by 
ASHRAE research and to quantify the amount of money wasted due to this loss. Many industry leading 
organizations including ASHRAE project that all HVAC/R units degrade in capacity and efficiency as they age. 
Thermal degradation is caused by a phenomenon that is present in all HVAC/R equipment that operates as a 
vapor compression cycle associated with refrigerant and compressor lubricant. This thermal degradation is well 
documented by the HVAC/R industry and the original equipment manufacturers (OEM’s). Thermal 
degradation prevents units from operating at the original design efficiency, which leads to excessive run-times 
and additional kWh consumption.
The chiller in this study is representative of a great majority of the portfolio of equipment operated by Global Telecom Equipment Manufacturer. 
If thermal degradation is present in this chiller it is present in the entire inventory of equipment. Energy waste 
can be calculated based on this equipment (portfolio representation) and then accurately extrapolated across 
the entire inventory of equipment.
As demonstrated in this field trial, PermaFrost NMR® restores the capacity of chiller systems lost over time due 
to fouling of the heat exchange surfaces in both the evaporator and condenser barrels. This restoration of 
capacity will manifest itself in any or all of the following ways:
• Ability of the chiller to better satisfy fluctuating building loads or lower room temps
• Produce additional redundancy at no extra cost or interruption to facility operations 
• Improve chiller efficiency, lowering cost to produce each ton of cooling required 
• Restore thermal efficiency, allowing chiller to achieve CW set point at lower load
• Improve chiller performance and extending equipment life by 15%+ 
• Reduce overall energy consumption and peak demand charges (KVA) 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
