Performance Report on PermaFrost NMR® ECM
Regional Convenience Store Chain - 2 locations
October 2, 2012
Executive Summary
        This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR®. Detailed forensic performance testing (outlined later in this report) was 
performed on several of the operating units at each location (Store #75 & Store #112). The 5 units tested 
were all York packaged rooftop units some using R-22 and some with R-410 refrigerant and totaling 32 tons 
(three 5-ton units and two 8.5-ton units). These two particular franchise locations are part of a series of 
stores owned by Regional Convenience Store Chain in the Baltimore metropolitan area. Infrastructure Contractor, represented by 
[Infrastructure Consultant] and [Client Representative], arranged with James Kitchens of Regional Convenience Store Chain, to perform this pilot.
 
The substantial improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly at the units was solely 
attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. The units now provide cooler supply air with greater efficiency 
due to the restoration of the heat transfer ability of the evaporator and condenser coils, both of which have a 
direct correlation to an increase in the number of Btuh the machines are now capable of producing. 
 
Total system efficiency across all five units improved by an average of 29%, while the EER across the units 
rose by an average of 28.6%. There was an overall average increase in coil capacity of 29.1% Btuh, equating 
to the restoration of 7.2-tons of capacity or 29%. There is also a reduction of 22.3% in both total power and 
watts per ton, which is another measurable way to view the thermodynamic enhancement of the 
PermaFrost NMR® ECM. Without any power company rebates factored in, the result of the average ECM 
improvements is an ROI to Regional Convenience Store Chain of just 12.6 months (without rebates) based on the runtime 
information provided to the team by the store owners. Regional Convenience Store Chain is eligible for 65% rebate from BGE/ICF 
for installed cost of PermaFrost NMR® which will significantly reduce the ROI. The tables of data and 
financial calculations are available for review at the end of this report.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
