2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of two chillers that support 
the Major Global Bank Data Center in [Northeast Location], NJ. 
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the chillers before and after the 
installation of the PermaFrost NMR® ECM to determine the impact on the three key elements that greatly 
affect the HVAC/R power bill as they relate to the original design specifications:
1. The cooling capacity the chillers produce after 11.5 (on average) years in service, before and after
the administration of the ECM.
2. The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the chillers can deliver as
reflected in the kW/ton measurement, before and after the administration of the ECM.
3. The thermal dynamic ability of the chillers to perform in relation to operational design, before and
after the administration of the ECM.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team consisted Frank Sherry 
Operations Manager with Commercial Real Estate Services/Major Global Bank Realty Services and Powertron Global’s Director of 
Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer].  
Notes
The equipment measured were two YS water-cooled chillers manufactured by York. The GPM through the evaporator, the 
incoming condenser water and the return chilled water in the baseline and post were matched closely so no adjustments 
were made.
The boundary of the testing was the chiller and nothing else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance 
calculations is very high.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
