Energy Science Division
PermaFrost NMR® Eﬃciency Report
Major University University   
September, 2013 
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure (ECM) 
PermaFrost NMR® into a 30-ton Mammoth package roof top unit (RTU) supporting the medical labs and 
offices within Duchess Hall on the South Campus of Major University University, NY.  Detailed forensic 
performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on this package RTU using R22 as the 
refrigerant.  Following testing, the RTU was treated with the proper amount and type of the PermaFrost 
NMR® technology specially formulated for these types of systems.  Measurement and Verification (M&V) 
was conducted pre-installation and post-gestation. The purpose of the testing was to 1) show how the ECM 
improves the thermal performance of any system it is installed in, and 2) show that the ECM is safe and will 
not harm Major University’s HVAC equipment.
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity 
gained directly at the unit was solely attributable to 
the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This is a result of the 
reversal of thermal inefficiency on heat exchange surfaces.  
Following treatment with the ECM, the packaged 
RTU showed an effective net 21.4% reduction in 
kW/ton based on the exact capacity measured in the 
baseline M&V and the post gestation M&V when 
operating at 100% load. The ECM also produced an 
average increase cooling capacity of 24% or 5.79 
tons. Prior to the ECM, the system produced 24.17 
tons of cooling as measured in-situ. After the ECM, 
the average combined tonnage produced increased 
to 29.96 tons. This 24% cooling capacity increase from the baseline performance levels led to an effective 
average increase in COP of 27.1% and a calculated reduction in kWh of 26% All of these factors directly 
correlate to what Major University University (part of University A) will realize in energy savings as they operate this 
package RTU in the future as well as other similar HVAC equipment across their portfolio.
This 30-ton Mammoth package RTU involved in the Major University 
University A pilot supports the medical labs and management offices 
within Duchess Hall on the South Campus of the University.  The 
image shows several of the certified digital instrumentation used to 
calculate the efficiency of the RTU in both the Baseline and Post.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
