Energy Science Division
Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces. 
A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment was implemented to determine if the operational 
conditions of the system was satisfactory. Baseline M&V was recorded on the supporting compressor and 
then the proper amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® was injected. The gestation period for the Stony 
Brook University pilot was 9 weeks. Prior to taking Post measurements, systems need to achieve at least 300 
or more hours of runtime to ensure adequate performance improvement time. At the end of this gestation 
period, Post M&V results were taken in the identical manner as in the baseline, taking special care to match 
the same or very similar entering air wet bulb and dry bulb as well as compressor discharge pressures. 
These are three of the most critical variables to contend with in an in-situ HVAC testing situation. When 
analyzing all of the data baseline and post data, the post Amps were adjusted upwards slightly to 
compensate for the 5 degree cooler outdoor air temps in the post testing period.
  
The following report produces the utilization of the International Performance Measurement and 
Verification Protocol (IPMVP) as the M&V plan. [Director of Facilities Maintenance], Director of Facilities Maintenance for Stony 
Brook University sanctioned this pilot. The final calculations were performed by Powertron Global®’s 
Forensic Mechanical Engineer, [Senior Energy Engineer].   
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
BTUH = CFM * 4.5 * Wet Bulb Enthalpy Delta
 
kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage
 
Percentage Eﬃciency = Measured BTUH / Manufacturers Design BTUH
 
Coeﬃcient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
