Executive Summary
This report contains specific information regarding the installation of PermaFrost NMR® in the 54-ton 
Carrier Water Cooled DX Unit #1 at the Commercial Real Estate Company Bldg at [Commercial Address], NYC.  The facility houses the 
Traffic Police Department for the City of New York.  Unit #1 is owned and maintained by Commercial Real Estate Company located 
in New York, NY.  Louis Rojo, Commercial Real Estate Company Facility Manager for this location, oversaw the trial. 
The improved/restored efficiency on the unit directly attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM was 
substantial.  The unit now provides cooler supply air with greater efficiency due to the restoration of the 
heat transfer capacity of the evaporator and condenser coils and increased the available useful tonnage. 
All three compressors were operating within design/operating standards and very similar to one another 
and all outside air dampers were closed both pre and post.
The overall system efficiency improved by 17.8% and the EER improved by 42.8%.  There was an increase in 
coil capacity of 96,525 in Btuh which equates to gaining 8-tons of capacity or 17.8%.  There is also a 
reduction of 18% in total power and watts per ton which is another measurable way to view the 
thermodynamic enhancement of the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The tables of data and financial calculations 
are available for review at the end of this report.  The result of these combined ECM improvements is an 
ROI to Commercial Real Estate Company of 23.9 months.
Measurement and Veriﬁcation Protocol
The International Performance Measurement and Verification Protocols (IPMVP) are used to develop this 
report.  The Association of Energy Engineers (AEE), American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and 
Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), and The Efficiency Valuation Organization (EVO) accept the 
IPMVP as a global methodology for determining the effectiveness of energy conservation methods and 
products.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
