Executive Summary
This report contains specific information regarding the installation of PermaFrost NMR® in the 54-ton 
Carrier Water Cooled DX Unit #2 at the Commercial Real Estate Company Bldg at [Commercial Address], NYC.  The facility houses the 
Traffic Police Department for the City of New York.  Unit #2 is owned and maintained by Commercial Real Estate Company located 
in New York, NY.  Louis Rojo, Commercial Real Estate Company Facility Manager for this location, oversaw the trial. 
The improved/restored efficiency on the unit directly attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM was 
substantial.  The unit now provides cooler supply air with greater efficiency due to the restoration of the 
heat transfer capacity of the evaporator and condenser coils and increased the available useful tonnage. 
During the testing we found that compressor #3 is operating slightly outside of design/operating standards 
of compressors #1 and #2.  The On-site mechanical contractor adjusted refrigerant charge prior to readings 
being taken but there was no change to the performance of the compressor.  Compressors #1 and #2 had 
slightly low evaporator pressure and temperature but still within operating range for the system.  Post 
readings after the ECM still show compressor #3 is not performing as well as the others.
The overall system efficiency improved by 33.3% and the EER improved by 46.5%.  There was an increase in 
coil capacity of 120,825 in Btuh which equates to gaining 10.1-tons of capacity or 26.6%.  There is also a 
reduction of 31.7% in total power and watts per ton which is another measurable way to view the 
thermodynamic enhancement of the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The tables of data and financial calculations 
are available for review at the end of this report.  The result of these combined ECM improvements is an 
ROI to Commercial Real Estate Company of 14.2 months.
Measurement and Veriﬁcation Protocol
The International Performance Measurement and Verification Protocols (IPMVP) are used to develop this 
report.  The Association of Energy Engineers (AEE), American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and 
Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), and The Efficiency Valuation Organization (EVO) accept the 
IPMVP as a global methodology for determining the effectiveness of energy conservation methods and 
products.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
