There are four distinct options in the IPMVP protocol for energy conservation professionals to utilize.  They 
are options A, B, C and D.  Retrofit Isolation (Option B) was the option used for this report.  Option B is 
defined as: All parameter measurements with the boundary of the ECM (Permafrost NMR®) as the single 
source of measurement.  Savings are determined by field measurement of the energy use of the ECM 
affected equipment or system and any performance enhancements versus the baseline data.
Measurement frequency ranges from short term to continuous, depending on the expected variations in the 
savings and the length of the reporting period.  For the boundary utilized for Option B short-term 
measurements are very useful as data when the variables are contained. The savings are calculated by 
short-term measurements of baseline and reporting period energy, and /or engineering computations using 
measurements of proxies of energy use. 
The final computation follows the formula:
Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces.
 
Commercial Real Estate Company made the decision to treat this unit as it was one of two supporting the 8th floor.  Both units were 
treated and tested.  A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment was implemented to determine if the 
unit’s operational conditions were satisfactory.  Baseline measurements were recorded and then the proper 
amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® was injected.  The product was then allowed four (4) weeks to seat 
itself into the metal surfaces before post measurements were taken to establish the efficiency gains. 
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP International Performance Measurement and 
Verification Protocol as the M&V plan. The final calculations were performed by Powertron Global’s Senior 
Energy Engineer [Senior Energy Engineer] ME/CEM/CMC/CMVP.
Energy Science Division
Option B savings = Baseline Energy – Reporting Period Energy
+ - Routine adjustments + - Non-Routine Adjustments
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
