®
4
17.6 tons
21.7 tons
Baseline
Tonnage
Post ECM
Tonnage
• The CRAC should be operating @ 20.5 tons of cooling capacity
• The CRAC was operating @ 17.6 tons of cooling capacity prior to
   installing ECM
• The CRAC now has 4.1 tons of restored cooling capacity after ECM
• The CRAC should be operating @ 4.2 COP or higher
• The CRAC was operating @ 3.41 COP prior to the ECM
   and 4.09 following the ECM
• The COP of the CRAC was increased by 19.9% following
   the ECM
3.41
Baseline COP
COEFFICIENT
OF
PERFORMANCE
(COP)
17.6
tons Baseline
100%
CAPACITY @
100% LOAD
Baseline
COP
Post ECM
COP
3.41
4.09
4.09
Post ECM COP
21.7
tons Post ECM
19.9%
Improvement
in COP
4.1
tons of
Recovered
Capacity
TONNAGE
COP
Summary of HVAC/R Eﬃciency Study Results
CRAC Unit Eﬃciency with PermaFrost NMR® ECM
Telecom Provider Communications has the problem of thermal degradation in its HVAC/R units. The lower operating 
tonnage and COP ratings measured on site are in line with the ASHRAE loss of performance and cost to operate 
numbers. The degraded equipment performance is costing Telecom Provider Communications significant money and wasting 
energy. All of Telecom Provider’s equipment is using significantly more kWh to operate than it used when it was new. 
The performance summary includes the measured efficiency and tonnage of the CRAC unit in the baseline and 
post testing periods demonstrating the impact of thermal degradation. 
The implementation of PermaFrost NMR® ECM resulted in a restoration of 4.1 operating tons and an 
improvement of 19.9% in Coefficient of Performance (COP), significantly reducing the cost to operate the 
CRAC unit throughout the year. The Leibert CRAC unit treated has a nominal capacity of 20.5 tons at 100% 
load at 85 degree entering air. Since normal operations were not to be changed to accommodate the pilot, the 
emphasis here is on the delta between baseline and post.  
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
