®
2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of one of five of CRAC 
units that support the Telecom Provider Communications facility in Allentown, PA. 
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the pilot CRAC unit before and 
after the installation of PermaFrost NMR® to determine the impact on the three key elements that greatly 
affect Telecom Provider’s HVAC power bill as they relate to the original design specifications:
 
 
1.  The cooling capacity the CRAC unit is capable of producing after 16 years in service.
 
2.  The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the CRAC unit is 
 
     delivering as reflected in the kW/ton measurement. 
 
3.  The thermal dynamic ability of the CRAC unit to still perform at or close to operational design.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team consisted of Telecom Provider’s Facility 
Engineering Manager, [Client Representative] and Powertron Global’s Director of Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer].  
Notes 
Since the post measurements were taken with outside air temperatures of 4 degrees cooler than in the baseline, actual amp 
readings taken in the post were raised to normalize for the very slight affect the weather had on the condensing unit’s 
ability to dissipate heat.  
Telecom Provider’s management of the data center and the internal load during the trial provided more than an adequate heat load on 
the pilot CRAC unit to ensure it would remain running during the actual data collection period. 
The boundary of the testing was the CRAC unit and nothing else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance 
calculations is very high.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
