 
This document is proprietary and confidential to Powertron Global, LLC and is not to be modified, distributed all or in part to any third party 
without prior written approval. © Copyright 2017 Powertron Global, LLC. 
 
4.    Technical 
 
When PermaFrost NMR® is installed into a unit, a molecular transformation 
develops. This transformation displaces layers of lubricating fluids that have been 
impinged in the evaporator and condenser heat exchanger surfaces. When the 
fluid is displaced, the evaporator and condenser can transfer additional heat 
energy through the tube walls (thermal restoration). This enables the evaporator to 
completely dehumidify the air per the unit’s design specifications.  When more 
dehumidification is developed, the enthalpy (a measure of how many grains of 
moisture are contained in a pound of air) increases. 
 
If the CFM and 4.5 remain constant, then it is the effect of PermaFrost NMR®’s 
Enthalpy Delta increase that restores (increases) the lost capacity (Tons).  
 
If the tonnage increases, then the kW/ton decreases by means of mathematical 
function, demonstrating PermaFrost NMR®’s post-treatment effect lowering the 
electrical cost of every ton of cooling produced, no matter how many tons are 
called for at any given time.  
  
PermaFrost NMR® cannot change any unit’s electrical characteristics i.e. 
everything that requires electricity is rated for the required power under different 
loads e.g. compressors and fans.  
 
 
 
 
5.    Conclusion 
 
The Maicom testing results validate the performance of the three (3) HVAC/R 
systems is consistent with a previously tested UL (formerly Underwriters 
Laboratories) unit as well as +300 case studies for review.  The results of the 
testing demonstrate the efficacy of PermaFrost NMR® by restoring the evaporator 
and condenser heat transfer capabilities per manufacturer’s design, thereby 
increasing cooling capacity while lowering the electrical cost per ton of cooling.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
