Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content of the following report will demonstrate the effects of PermaFrost NMR®’s ability to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces. 
It was determined with International Bank A to treat 8 DX units. A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment is 
implemented to determine if the unit’s operational conditions are satisfactory. Baseline measurements were  
recorded and then the proper amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® was injected. The product was 
allowed 4 weeks to seat itself into the metal surfaces. At the end of this gestation period, Post M&V results 
were taken in the identical manner as in the baseline, taking special care to match the same or very similar 
entering air temperatures and compressor discharge pressures. These are the two most critical 
measurements affected by the weather. Some units in this report required normalization due to weather.
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP International Performance Measurement and 
Verification Protocol as the M&V plan. The final calculations and measurements were performed by 
Powertron Global’s Forensic Mechanical Engineer, [Senior Energy Engineer] and the equipment analysis and 
product installation was overseen, conducted and verified with International Bank A employees Mr. [Bank Representative] and Mr. 
[Bank Representative].
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
 
kW= Volts X Amps * 1.47 Three Phase / 1000
 
 
Btuh Capacity = Measured CFM X 4.5 * Calculated Enthalpy Delta 
 
 
System Eﬃciency % = Actual Coil Capacity Btuh / Nominal Coil Capacity Btuh
 
 
kW per Ton = Measured kW / Measured Tons
 
 
COP = 12 / kW per ton / 3.412
 
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
