Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content of the following report will demonstrate the effects of PermaFrost NMR®’s ability to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces. 
A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment is implemented to determine if the unit’s operational 
conditions are satisfactory. Baseline measurements were recorded and the proper amount and type of 
Permafrost were injected. The product was allowed 4 weeks to seat itself into the metal surfaces. At the end 
of this gestation period, post M&V results were taken in the identical manner as in the baseline, taking 
special care to match the same or very similar entering air temperatures and compressor discharge 
pressures. 
It was determined by Data Center Provider that the units run approximately 4,380 hours annually at a kWh cost of .08 
cents per kW.
A Local 73 union sheet metal worker who is employed by RMC INC., took the CFM readings. There were 19 
points that were traversed on the return duct, which was every 6" across the entire length of the duct. Each 
measurement was documented and measured with a hot wire anemometer. This procedure was done three 
times on the Baseline and the Energy Reporting (post) periods. The three readings from the Baseline where 
averaged and then this process was repeated in the Energy Reporting Period.
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP International Performance Measurement and 
Verification Protocol as the M&V plan. The final calculations were performed by Powertron Global®’s 
Forensic Mechanical Engineer, [Senior Energy Engineer].
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
kW = Volts x Amperage x 1.64 (.95 x 1.732) / 1000 (for 3-phase)
 
Actual GPM = GPM2 = GPM * Measured Pressure Drop (ft) / by Design Pressure Drop (ft) (squared)
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
