®
2
Process
This comprehensive report contains specific information regarding the performance profile of a single water 
cooled packaged unit (PU) that supports the Beverage Company B Factory. The detailed performance testing (outlined 
later in this report) was performed on the PU before (baseline) and after (post) the installation of PermaFrost 
NMR®. 
This testing determined the impact on three key elements relating to the original design specifications that 
greatly affect the HVAC portion of the Beverage Company B Factory power bill. They include:
 
1. The cooling capacity the PU is capable of producing after just seven (7) years in service. 
 
2. The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the PU is delivering as  
 
reflected in the kW/ton measurement. 
 
3. The thermal dynamic ability of the equipment to still perform at or close to operational design.  
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework.
 
[Client Director of Engineering] of Beverage Company and [Client Mechanical Engineer] of HVAC Contractor B witnessed and verified the recording of all of the 
pilot measurements while being observed by Powertron Global’s Director of Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer].
  
The baseline day chosen to test the PU’s was an average day temperature and humidity-wise for the local 
area in the fall and winter which ensured repeatability of similar weather for the post testing measurements.  
The weather and factory conditions on both days provided an adequate heat load on the facility to ensure both 
compressors in the system would remain running during the actual data collection period. The boundary of 
the testing was the PU and nothing else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance calculations 
is very high.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
