Executive Summary
This report contains specific information regarding the installation of PermaFrost NMR® in the 20-ton 
Comfort-Aire DX HVAC unit at Organization A, 2nd floor, [Commercial Address], NY.  The unit is owned 
and maintained by Organization A (heretofore referred to as The Company) located in New York, NY. 
[Client Representative], P.E. representing Organization A, oversaw the trial. 
The improved/restored efficiency on the unit directly attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM was 
substantial.  The unit now provides cooler supply air with greater efficiency due to the restoration of the 
heat transfer capacity of the evaporator and condenser coils and increased the available useful tonnage. 
Please note that this system is subjected to excessive discharge refrigerant temperatures and subsequent 
pressures.  These issues at times cause nuisance tripping of the discharge pressure safety switch that then 
causes the unit to shut down.  During the initial baseline data recording period this condition was observed 
and as a result the pressure drop across the condenser coil was measured.  This pressure difference should 
not exceed 0.50".  The measured pressure drop measured during this baseline reporting period was in excess 
of 2".
 
It was also our understanding that the condenser coil was cleaned by a service group to attempt to alleviate 
this condition.  The post energy measurement period revealed that the discharge pressure is  in excess of 305 
psi.  This necessitated another measurement of the pressure drop across the condenser coil and this revealed 
that the pressure drop is continuing to measure in excess of 2".  The method of cleaning to this coil has not 
produced the required relief for the system to completely condense all of the discharge gas.  We suggest that 
this condenser coil be cleaned with the proper chemicals and water as the manufacturer instructs.  When 
this pressure is reduced, the savings as a result of the installation of PermaFrost NMR® will be even greater.
The overall system efficiency improved by 12.7% and the EER improved by 12.4%.  There was an increase in 
coil capacity of 19,969 in Btuh which equates to gaining 1.7-tons of capacity or 12.5%.  There is also a 
reduction of 10.9% in total power and watts per ton which is another measurable way to view the 
thermodynamic enhancement of the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The tables of data and financial calculations 
are available for review at the end of this report.  The result of these combined ECM improvements is an 
ROI to The Company of 27.2 months.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
