Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, the Amp draw on the system was also 
reduced by 15.6%. Simultaneously, the system showed a substantial 60.3% improvement in Enthalpy 
Delta, which is a critical HVAC measurement used to determine the thermodynamic enhancement 
brought about by the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The result of the ECM improvement is an ROI (Return on 
Investment) to Major Tire Manufacturer that is measured in months. The tables of data are available for review at the 
end of this report. Financial calculations determining the true ROI are proprietary to Major Tire Manufacturer under 
separate cover.  
Product Brief
         PermaFrost NMR® is a multi-patented nanotechnology surface chemistry Energy Control Measure 
(ECM) that uses Nucleo Molecular Regenerative (NMR) technology as its core agent. A sustainable, 
one-time treatment with no down time required, PermaFrost NMR® lasts for the remaining life of any 
type of system in which it is installed. Examples of the types of commercial HVACR systems and 
equipment that PermaFrost NMR® has proven success with are direct expansion air systems (DX); 
chilled water systems (both flooded and DX; air and water cooled); ice making equipment; ammonia 
refrigeration plants (single compressor and cascade) and variable refrigerant flow (VRF) designs. The 
equipment utilized in these systems within our expanding portfolio of clients includes centrifugal 
(single and multi-stage), scroll, reciprocating and screw configurations.
The direct benefits of PermaFrost NMR® are improved cooling performance, increased capacity and 
improved refrigerant velocity – all of which allow systems to achieve set point temperatures in a more 
rapid fashion which reduces compressor operating periods. The indirect benefits resulting from the 
enhanced thermodynamic characteristics following treatment include reduced run time, less kW hours 
used, less amp draw at the compressor, longer equipment life cycle time and a reduced carbon footprint 
for Major Tire Manufacturer.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
