Energy Science Division
Avoided Energy Cost (savings) Per Month         ($47,369 - $25,582)/12 = $1,816
Cost of PermaFrost NMR® installed         $8,750 / $1,816 = 5 months
        ROI = 5 months
Engineering Conclusions
The client, Douglas North, Facilities Management Director, Major Tire Manufacturer [Eastern Cape Location] Plant was consulted 
regarding this equipment after the avoided energy reporting period (post analysis) and the following 
observations were discussed.
 
        The evaporator coil has some visual mold growth on the leaving airside of the aluminum fins. This is 
causing some additional pressure drop across the tube and fin evaporator.
 
 2     The blower drive components are not performing at the proper RPM due to the degradation of drive 
sheaves. Once corrected, the belts should also be replaced. This is causing a reduction in the area of available 
delivered cubic feet of supply air per minute (CFM). Please note that this condition was present during the 
baseline data period and was not corrected until after this pilot analysis was to be completed. Now that the 
pilot testing period has ended, this correction should commence.
 2     Compressor number one (1) was recently replaced and is now showing evidence of overheating. There 
is a refrigerant leak emitting from the capillary tubing connecting the compressor to its respective safety 
switches. Evidence of this refrigerant oil can be seen inside of the pressure controls section cabinet.
        There are four segregated sections of evaporator coils that are joined together creating one evaporator. 
Compressor #1 serves two of the circuits and the other two circuits are served by compressor #2. Each 
section of the respective circuits is comprised of two thermostatic expansion valves (TXV) for each 
compressor. Each of these TXV’s had a different superheat. This should be corrected in a timely manner. The 
evaporator should be cleaned and the belts and sheaves should be corrected before this adjustment is 
initiated.
4
1
2
3
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
