1
PermaFrost NMR® Eﬃciency Report
Major Tire Manufacturer
May, 2013
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure (ECM) 
PermaFrost NMR® in the primary HVAC split system serving the main offices at the Major Tire Manufacturer 
Manufacturing Plant located at [South Africa Manufacturing Facility Address], South Africa. Detailed forensic performance 
testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on a nominal 70-ton (246kWR) air-cooled split DX system 
using R22 refrigerant. Following testing, the unit was treated with the proper amount and type of the 
PermaFrost NMR® technology specially formulated for these types of systems. 
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly 
at the system was solely attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® 
ECM. This is a result of the reversal of thermal inefficiency on heat exchange 
surfaces, creating greater efficiency in refrigerant approach and the 
thermal energy transfer abilities of the cooler and condenser vessels. 
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, the 
system showed an effective net 46.1% reduction in kW based on 
the exact capacity measured in the baseline M&V and the post 
gestation M&V. With both 35-ton (123 kWR) compressors 
operating at full load, the system showed a 15.5% reduction in 
kW, while simultaneously producing an increase in capacity of 
32.7 tons. This 57.1% increase from the baseline performance 
levels produced an effective net reduction in kW/ton of 46.1%, 
which directly correlates to what Major Tire Manufacturer will realize in energy 
savings as they operate the system in the future under the same 
parameters. Case in point, Major Tire Manufacturer has reported the system is 
now able to attain set-point temperatures in the main offices on 
most days while operating only one compressor instead of two.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
