Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces.
 
A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment was implemented to determine if the unit’s operational 
conditions were satisfactory.  Baseline measurements were recorded and then the proper amount and type 
of PermaFrost NMR® was injected. The gestation period for the Major Tire Manufacturer pilot was six (6) weeks. At the 
end of this gestation period, Post results were taken in the identical manner as in the baseline, taking special 
care to match the same or very similar entering air temperatures and compressor discharge pressures. These 
are the two most critical measurements affected by the weather. When analyzing the data, no adjustments 
for weather were necessary. 
The following report produces the utilization of the International Performance Measurement and 
Verification Protocol (IPMVP) as the M&V plan. The final calculations were performed by Powertron 
Global’s Forensic Mechanical Engineer, [Senior Energy Engineer], CEM/CMC/CMVP. Douglas North, 
Facilities Management Director, Major Tire Manufacturer [Eastern Cape Location] Plant, witnessed all phases of the M&V.  
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase)   
 
BTUH = CFM X 4.5 (standard air) X Calculated Enthalpy Delta
 
kW / Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage or kWR
 
Percentage Eﬃciency = Measured BTUh / Manufacturers Design BTUh
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
