 
This document is proprietary and confidential to Powertron Global, LLC and is not to be modified, distributed all or in part to any third party 
without prior written approval. © Copyright 2023 Powertron Global, LLC. 
 
 
A. Executive Summary 
 
The purpose of this study is to compare and confirm the test results of AHRI 
Standards efficiency testing at Underwriters Laboratories, Inc (UL) of PermaFrost 
NMR® to verify results under field conditions at 10 cell tower sites in Houston, 
Texas.   
PermaFrost NMR® is an efficiency restoration chemical that treats the surface of 
metal. It works the same way on every air conditioner, every time.  Measuring the 
performance accurately is based on measuring expected variables and the 
mitigation of uncontrolled variables, so forensic based standards field testing 
should be in line with laboratory testing due to the chemical nature of the 
technology.   Major US Telecom requested expanding the testing parameters to include energy 
use (runtime) under the same weather conditions (where possible) to determine 
energy savings in situ. Twenty units generated a large enough sample size to help 
account for uncontrolled variables with a high level of confidence.  Together, these 
methodologies should help to create additional confidence in the data. 
1. Average kWh savings of 19.4% achieved in field testing across all sites is 
comparable to the 18% - 22% efficiency gains found in controlled AHRI lab 
testing by UL (Gold Standard of the HVAC industry). 
2. Runtime was reduced by 18,818 minutes or 18.3% matching UL controlled test 
results. 
3. Weather conditions (temperature data) in the post were slightly warmer. 
Cooling Degree Days (CDDs) in the post were within .2% of baseline. This 
small amount of additional work was overcome providing high confidence in 
the data sets with respect to weather conditions.  
4. Eight of the ten sites had comparable runtime data sets. Two sites required a 
regression analysis (blue) due to mechanical issues in a couple of units 
(normal) affecting runtimes. The independent kWh and runtime savings 
matched the EER and kW/ton improvements.  
5. Runtime reduction equates to a ~19% equipment life extension and 
maintenance expense reduction. 
6. The forensic study data in this pilot can be used by Major US Telecom to cut additional 
expenses outside of the focus of this pilot.  Powertron engineers and data staff 
have uncovered opportunities in equipment, service, and operational protocols 
that can be leveraged if desired.    
 
B. Introduction 
 
A selection of twenty (20) consecutive days prior to the implementation of 
PermaFrost NMR® is compared to twenty (20) consecutive days in the Energy 
Reporting Period (ERP) or post period. The Energy Reporting Period was selected 
after ample time was allowed for the treated Bard units to have gestated as 
determined by measuring each units compressor run time after the 
nanotechnology had been installed. 
