 
This document is proprietary and confidential to Powertron Global, LLC and is not to be modified, distributed all or in part to any third party 
without prior written approval. © Copyright 2023 Powertron Global, LLC. 
average summer temps occurring in the [Texas City] area. Expanding the 
baseline and post periods to allow for ideal weather comparisons provides higher 
confidence in the data. 
 
The installation of PermaFrost NMR occurred on July 5-6, 2023. Immediately after 
the installation the Bard thermostat controllers were lowered in each tower sites 
building and allowed to run for approximately thirty (30) days uninterrupted to 
speed up the gestation time required for the nanotechnology to seat itself into the 
metal surfaces of each unit. The data collected during this period will not be used 
in any analysis. The thermostat controllers were returned to the normal operating 
settings of 80-degree set point on August 7, 2023. Further gestation was required 
at normal operating conditions in order to produce a proper post data set.  
 
The Energy Reporting Period (ERP) was from September 6 to October 3, 2023. 
Twenty (20) consecutive days are used in the post-period to simulate weather 
conditions following product gestation. 
 
D. ECM Description 
 
As PermaFrost NMR nanotechnology (interior coil surface treatment) is installed 
into a sealed vapor compression system (Package HVAC Unit), a molecular 
transformation develops. This transformation displaces layers of lubricating fluids 
that have been impinged in the evaporator and condenser heat exchanger metal 
surfaces. When the fluid is displaced, the evaporator and condenser can transfer 
additional heat energy through the tube walls (thermal restoration). This enables 
the evaporator to completely dehumidify the air per the unit’s design specifications.  
When more dehumidification is developed, the enthalpy delta is increased. This is 
the action that increases thermal performance through heat exchanger restoration. 
 
 
As the capacity increases, the kW/ton decreases by means of mathematical 
function, demonstrating PermaFrost NMR’s post-treatment effect lowering the 
electrical cost of every ton of cooling produced, no matter how many tons are called 
for at any given time.  
  
PermaFrost NMR does not change or alter any unit’s electrical characteristics. This 
change of performance is purely thermal in nature. 
 
 
E. Measurement & Verification 
 
The primary objective is to measure the complete power use by each HVAC unit 
utilizing revenue grade power meters directly connected to each unit to measure 
power consumption during both Baseline and Energy Reporting Periods. 
Measuring overall power consumed by an HVAC system can be realized by 
measuring voltage, amperage and power factor. Parameters were measured 
continuously every second during all hours for a period of twenty (20) days to 
develop a baseline. The outdoor air temperature sensors are mounted near each 
HVAC unit to quantify the number of CDDs each unit experienced during the data-
