 
This document is proprietary and confidential to Powertron Global, LLC and is not to be modified, distributed all or in part to any third party 
without prior written approval. © Copyright 2023 Powertron Global, LLC. 
 
Powertron Global’s digital F2 monitoring systems were installed on each individual 
HVAC unit (2 per site) at ten (10) selected cell tower building sites (Appendix A). 
The measurement boundary will be the HVAC equipment itself. The F2 devices 
recorded data every second on a continual basis. The data is automatically 
uploaded to Powertron’s FMV data gathering platform. Each F2 device is 
equipped with a revenue grade power meter and specific levels of sensor 
technology including a variety of temperature, humidity, airflow, and current 
measurements (compressor on/off) capabilities. The list of points measured can 
be found within Appendix B in this report. All measurements were collected to 
provide the establishment of a confident baseline power consumption and thermal 
performance as determined by the use of temperature data (CDD). The F2 
systems remained attached to the equipment throughout the entire project. 
 
After baseline data was established, a total of twenty (20) HVAC units were 
treated with the proper amount of PermaFrost NMR®, a nanotechnical chemical, 
designed to restore any lost cooling capacity because of internal heat exchanger 
lubricant fouling. The goal of the technology is to restore lost efficiency, enhance 
cooling capacity from depleted levels, and to reduce compressor runtime/cycle 
time periods.  
 
Accomplishing the deliverance of additional cooling capacity by improving heat 
exchanger performance will reduce the amount of time the compressor must 
operate therefore reducing the amount of total kilowatt hours consumed on a daily 
basis.   
 
After treatment and required time for the nanotechnology to gestate (up to 500 
compressor runtime hours) throughout the refrigeration circuit of each unit, the 
ERP or post data gathering was recorded. The ERP data will be compared to the 
baseline power data taking into account the CDD totals to normalize the results. 
 
 
C. Project Description 
 
The initial baseline period was conducted on May 11-24 of 2023 but due to the 
delayed installation of the product, Powertron Global F2 devices captured 
additional 6 weeks approximately of baseline data (May 25 – July 4). A pivot in the 
selection of the baseline data period was determined to compare pre & post data 
sets with the exact or near exact Cooling Degree Day (CDD) totals for like weather 
conditions. Another important static factor that influenced the data selection was to 
include an even number of lead and lag days in both data sets. The Lead/Lag 
settings on the controllers are set for 1 day allowing the units to alternate each day 
as the lead.  
 
Powertron was able to use a more compelling and comparable baseline period 
with external load temperatures and additional days of exposure (data). This year 
in Texas the spring temperatures were unseasonably cool followed by above 
