 
This document is proprietary and confidential to Powertron Global, LLC and is not to be modified, distributed all or in part to any third party 
without prior written approval. © Copyright 2023 Powertron Global, LLC. 
collecting periods. 
 
The supplemental objective of measuring the overall cooling production of HVAC 
systems can be realized by measuring the total energy consumed by the specific 
unit being tested and the total BTUH production of the system then calculating 
these parameters to obtain current capacity, kW/ton, EER (energy efficient ratio) 
and COP (coefficient of performance). Using that information the total BTUH of 
cooling production can be realized.  
 
For these HVAC systems, parameters were measured continuously every second 
during all hours for a period of twenty (20) days to develop a scientific baseline. 
The outdoor air temperature entering the air-cooled condenser coils of each unit 
will affect the design capacity. An analysis is provided of the twenty (20) day 
period of performance profiles of subsequent kW/ton, EER and COP across a 
variation of outdoor air temperatures spanning a twenty-five (25) degree span 
(75ºF-100ºF). 
 
Total BTUH was developed along with total kW consumption by measuring all 
required data points and entering them into industry best practice engineering 
formulae. All measurement hardware was certified under NIST or CE standards. 
Engineering formulae was developed by AHRI / ASHRAE (American Heating and 
Refrigeration Institute / American Society of Heating Refrigeration & Air 
Conditioning Engineers): 
 
Kilo-watt (kW) = Volts (V) x Amps (A) x Power Factor (PF) / 1000 
British Thermal Units (BTU) = CFM x 4.5 x Enthalpy Delta  
Capacity / Tons = BTU / 12,000 
Kilo-watt per Ton (kW/Ton) = kW Energy / Tons (capacity) 
Co-Efficient of Performance (COP) = 12/kW per ton/ 3.412 
Energy Efficiency Ratio (EER) = BTU / Watts 
 
 
F. Baseline Period Energy and Conditions 
Baseline dates varied slightly for each unit due to CDD selections measured by 
onsite outdoor air temp sensors as to compare exact or near exact data sets in 
post in respect to CDD totals. Generally, the dates occurred between May 31 – 
June 25. Operating hours for these cell huts are 24/7 365 days a year. Each 
individual units baseline dates can be found later in this report. Each hut was 
allowed to operate as normal without interruption. Thermostat settings were static 
and left alone during both the Baseline and Energy Reporting Periods. Internally 
generated heat produced by Major US Telecom servers and antennas varied from hut to hut 
but were considered static in both Baseline and ERP. 
 
 
