The Problem
During normal operation, heat transfer surfaces in HVAC systems can become less efficient over time. This thermal degradation reduces the ability of the system to transfer heat effectively, thus reducing overall efficiency.  Almost every piece of HVAC equipment in the world experiences some degree of thermal efficiency loss over its operating life. Independent studies from the American Society of Heating, 
Refrigeration & Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) have concluded that thermal inefficiency can increase the 
electricity consumption of any HVAC system by up to 30% within the first five years of the equipment’s life.  
Product Brief
         PermaFrost NMR® is a nanotechnology that uses Nucleo Molecular Regenerative (NMR®) 
technology as its core agent to eliminate and reverse the effects of thermal inefficiency on HVAC equipment.  A 
one-time treatment of PermaFrost NMR® will provide thermal efficiency protection for the remaining life of any 
refrigerant system.  The manufacturer of  PermaFrost NMR®, Powertron Global®, has installed and 
tested PermaFrost NMR® in over 108,000 HVAC and refrigeration systems around the world and has 
experienced energy reduction in direct expansion (DX), chiller (screw, reciprocating, scroll and 
centrifugal), heat pumps, and ice making equipment. Specialized applications include computer room 
cooling and dehumidification systems, chiller plants (water and ice production applications), domestic 
and industrial refrigeration (ammonia low and ultra low temperature), air-cooled single application 
water chillers, and split and package rooftop HVACR equipment.
The direct benefits of PermaFrost NMR® include improved cooling performance, increased capacity and 
improved refrigerant velocity – all of which allow systems to achieve set point temperatures more 
quickly, which reduces compressor operating times. The indirect benefits resulting from the enhanced 
thermodynamic characteristics following treatment include reduced run time, fewer kilowatt-hours 
used, less amp draw at the compressor, longer equipment life and reduced carbon footprint.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
