for advice on the minimum requirements for personal protective equipment. Additional protective 
measures may be necessary, depending on the specific circumstances and/or the expert 
judgment of the emergency responders.   
SPILL MANAGEMENT
Land Spill:  Stop leak if you can do so without risk.  Recover by pumping or with suitable 
absorbent. 
Water Spill:  Stop leak if you can do so without risk.  Confine the spill immediately with booms.  
Warn other shipping.  Remove from the surface by skimming or with suitable absorbents.  Seek 
the advice of a specialist before using dispersants. 
Water spill and land spill recommendations are based on the most likely spill scenario for this 
material; however, geographic conditions, wind, temperature, (and in the case of a water spill) 
wave and current direction and speed may greatly influence the appropriate action to be taken.  
For this reason, local experts should be consulted.  Note:  Local regulations may prescribe or limit 
action to be taken.  
ENVIRONMENTAL PRECAUTIONS
Large Spills:  Dyke far ahead of liquid spill for later recovery and disposal.  Prevent entry into 
waterways, sewers, basements or confined areas. 
SECTION 7
HANDLING AND STORAGE
HANDLING
 Prevent small spills and leakage to avoid slip hazard.   Material can accumulate static charges 
which may cause an electrical spark (ignition source).  When the material is handled in bulk, an 
electrical spark could ignite any flammable vapors from liquids or residues that may be present 
(e.g., during switch-loading operations).  Use proper bonding and/or earthing procedures.  
However, bonding and earthing may not eliminate the hazard from static accumulation.  Consult 
local applicable standards for guidance.  Additional references include American Petroleum 
Institute 2003 (Protection Against Ignitions Arising out of Static, Lightning and Stray Currents) or 
National Fire Protection Agency 77 (Recommended Practice on Static Electricity) or CENELEC 
CLC/TR 50404 (Electrostatics - Code of practice for the avoidance of hazards due to static 
electricity).    
Static Accumulator:   This material is a static accumulator. 
STORAGE
The container choice, for example storage vessel, may effect static accumulation and dissipation.  Do not 
store in open or unlabeled containers.        
Material is defined under the National Standard [NOHSC: 1015] Storage and Handling of Workplace 
Dangerous Goods.
SECTION 8
EXPOSURE CONTROLS / PERSONAL PROTECTION
Exposure limits/standards for materials that can be formed when handling this product:   
NOTE: Limits/standards shown for guidance only.  Follow applicable regulations. 
Biological limits 
No biological limits allocated. 
Effective Date: January 1, 2019
