SECTION 11 
TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION 
ACUTE TOXICITY 
Route of Exposure 
Conclusion / Remarks 
Inhalation 
Toxicity (Rat): LC50 > 5000 mg/m3 
Minimally Toxic. Based on test data for structurally similar 
materials. 
Irritation: No end point data. 
Negligible hazard at ambient/normal handling temperatures. 
Based on assessment of the components. 
Ingestion 
Toxicity (Rat): LD50 > 5000 mg/kg 
Minimally Toxic. Based on test data for structurally similar 
materials. 
Skin 
Toxicity (Rabbit): LD50 > 5000 mg/kg 
Minimally Toxic. Based on test data for structurally similar 
materials. 
Irritation (Rabbit): Data available. 
Negligible irritation to skin at ambient temperatures. Based on test 
data for structurally similar materials. 
Eye 
Irritation (Rabbit): Data available. 
May cause mild, short-lasting discomfort to eyes. Based on test 
data for structurally similar materials. 
CHRONIC/OTHER EFFECTS 
    For the product itself: 
 Repeated and/or prolonged exposure may cause irritation to the skin, eyes, or respiratory tract.  
Component concentrations in this formulation would not be expected to cause skin sensitization, 
based on tests of the components or similar formulations. 
Contains: 
Synthetic base oils: Not expected to cause significant health effects under conditions of normal 
use, based on laboratory studies with the same or similar materials. Not mutagenic or genotoxic. 
Not sensitizing in test animals and humans. 
Additional information is available by request. 
IARC Classification: 
The following ingredients are cited on the lists below:  None. 
--REGULATORY LISTS SEARCHED-- 
1 = IARC 1 
 2 = IARC 2A 
 3 = IARC 2B 
SECTION 12 
ECOLOGICAL INFORMATION 
The information given is based on data available for the material, the components of the material, and 
similar materials. 
ECOTOXICITY  
    Material -- Not expected to be harmful to aquatic organisms. 
MOBILITY
    Base oil component -- Low solubility and floats and is expected to migrate from water to the land. 
Expected to partition to sediment and wastewater solids.  
Effective Date: January 1, 2019
