ENGINEERING CONTROLS 
The level of protection and types of controls necessary will vary depending upon potential 
exposure conditions.  Control measures to consider: 
 No special requirements under ordinary conditions of use and with adequate ventilation. 
PERSONAL PROTECTION 
Personal protective equipment selections vary based on potential exposure conditions such as 
applications, handling practices, concentration and ventilation.  Information on the selection of 
protective equipment for use with this material, as provided below, is based upon intended, 
normal usage.   
Respiratory Protection:   If engineering controls do not maintain airborne contaminant 
concentrations at a level which is adequate to protect worker health, an approved respirator may 
be appropriate.  Respirator selection, use, and maintenance must be in accordance with 
regulatory requirements, if applicable.  Types of respirators to be considered for this material 
include:  
Particulate 
For high airborne concentrations, use an approved supplied-air respirator, operated in positive 
pressure mode.  Supplied air respirators with an escape bottle may be appropriate when oxygen 
levels are inadequate, gas/vapor warning properties are poor, or if air purifying filter 
capacity/rating may be exceeded. 
Hand Protection:   Any specific glove information provided is based on published literature and 
glove manufacturer data.  Glove suitability and breakthrough time will differ depending on the 
specific use conditions. Contact the glove manufacturer for specific advice on glove selection and 
breakthrough times for your use conditions. Inspect and replace worn or damaged gloves. The 
types of gloves to be considered for this material include: 
Nitrile, Viton 
No protection is ordinarily required under normal conditions of use. 
Eye Protection:   If contact is likely, safety glasses with side shields are recommended. 
Skin and Body Protection:    Any specific clothing information provided is based on published 
literature or manufacturer data.  The types of clothing to be considered for this material include: 
 No skin protection is ordinarily required under normal conditions of use.  In accordance 
with good industrial hygiene practices, precautions should be taken to avoid skin contact. 
Specific Hygiene Measures:   Always observe good personal hygiene measures, such as 
washing after handling the material and before eating, drinking, and/or smoking. Routinely wash 
work clothing and protective equipment to remove contaminants. Discard contaminated clothing 
and footwear that cannot be cleaned. Practice good housekeeping. 
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROLS 
 Comply with applicable environmental regulations limiting discharge to air, water and soil. Protect 
the environment by applying appropriate control measures to prevent or limit emissions. 
Effective Date: January 1, 2019
