!
Pilot Overview
From August to October 2015, Energy Efﬁcient Technologies, LLC (EET) and Powertron Global (PTG), conducted a 
joint pilot project on three Regional Convenience Store Chain stores located in and around St. George, Utah.  A fourth store (Hurricane Store
#402)  that was initially included but later removed from the pilot for some unforeseen mechanical issues 
unrelated to the project involving one of the two main roof top units (RTUs). The primary purpose of this pilot 
project was to demonstrate the effectiveness of implementing PermaFrost NMR® technology into the HVAC and 
refrigeration systems located in each of the stores.  In addition to PermaFrost NMR®, a power factor technology 
called Circuit Master was also included in the pilot to ascertain its feasibility in future Regional Convenience Store Chain Adventure Store 
applications.
 
In order to provide conclusive results demonstrating the cost savings of the aforementioned energy conservation 
measures (ECMs), EET installed utility grade meters with logging capabilities to monitor only the HVAC and 
refrigeration power demand and energy consumption in each store. Baseline (pre) data was collected for two 
weeks before implementing the technologies on August 21st.  Results from power factor correction can be 
noticed immediately so their effect was calculated in the two days immediately preceding and following 
implementation of the Circuit Master devices at the electrical panel.  PermaFrost NMR® requires a minimum of 
350-400 hours of operation on the two rooftops units (RTUs) and multiple refrigeration units supporting each of 
the Regional Convenience Store Chain Adventure Stores before maximum savings are generated.  For this reason, the post data was 
collected after 30 September 2015 yielding the results summarized in subsequent sections. 
The HVAC and refrigeration equipment in this study are representative of a great majority of the portfolio of 
equipment operated by Regional Convenience Store Chain in their Adventure Stores. If thermal degradation is present in this pilot 
equipment, it is present in the entire inventory of Regional Convenience Store Chain cooling equipment. Energy savings calculations based 
on the improvement demonstrated in the pilot equipment (portfolio representation) can then be accurately 
extrapolated across the entire inventory of equipment.
As demonstrated in this pilot study, PermaFrost NMR® restores the capacity of cooling systems lost over time due 
to fouling of the heat exchange surfaces. Working in a complementary fashion, the Circuit Master technology is 
designed to block distortions in electrical power above and below the normal signal range and contains line ﬁlter 
capacitors to improve power factor. This allows induction power equipment such as HVAC and refrigeration 
compressors and fans to use less energy.  The restoration of cooling system capacity combined with improved 
power will manifest itself in any or all of the following ways:
 
• Ability of the equipment to better satisfy ﬂuctuating store and efrigeration loads
  
• Produce additional cooling redundancy at no extra cost or interruption to store operations
  
• Improve cooling equipment efﬁciency, lowering cost to produce each ton of cooling required 
  
• Restore thermal efﬁciency, allowing cooling equipment to achieve thermostat set points faster
  
• Reduce unscheduled maintenance issues and extend equipment life by 15% or more 
  
• Reduce overall energy consumption and peak demand charges (KVA)
2
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
