!
ECM Descriptions
PermaFrost NMR®
Even though the HVAC units at these locations appear to be in good
working condition, there is still an opportunity for energy savings.
All HVAC equipment experiences thermal degradation over time as internal surfaces
of heat exchangers lose their optimal thermal transfer characteristics. This
thermal inefficiency can increase electricity consumption by up to 30% within the
first five years of the equipment's life, resulting in reduced capacity, lower
efficiency, and higher operating costs.
PermaFrost NMR® addresses this degradation by creating a permanent thermal metal coating
on the internal surfaces of the coil system. This coating conditions the metal surfaces,
improving volumetric heat transfer properties and restoring capacity, all while also
protecting against corrosion. Working together, the kilowatt consumption of 
your HVAC system is reduced signiﬁcantly, lowering the cost to produce each ton of cooling. The installation of 
PermaFrost NMR® does not require any additional hardware, maintenance or downtime for installation, and will 
last for the life of the unit.
Circuit Master®
Circuit Master is a product that blocks distortions in electrical power above and 
below the normal signal range and contains line ﬁlter capacitors to improve 
power factor.  This allows induction power equipment such as HVAC, 
refrigeration, motors and pumps to use less energy.  Equipment lifespan is also 
increased and maintenance costs are reduced. This equipment is installed at 
the disconnect for each machine.
3
The improvements demonstrated in this or any ﬁeld test resulting from PermaFrost NMR are dependent on factors 
such as age, condition, service history, runtime of one or both compressors and the design and application of 
each unit. The PermaFrost NMR results in this pilot were very consistent with 13-year historical performance 
averages as well as the recent laboratory study completed on the PermaFrost NMR technology in May, 2015 by 
Underwriters Laboratories in their testing chambers in [Texas Location], TX.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
