PermaFrost NMR® Performance Report
County Law Enforcement A 
July, 2013 
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® in one of the two main HVAC units supporting the County Law Enforcement A MD Police 
Department located at [Government Facility Address], Ellicott City, MD. Detailed forensic performance testing 
(outlined later in this report) was performed on the nominal 26-ton split system outfitted with one 
compressor using R22 refrigerant. Following testing, the unit was treated with the proper amount and type 
of the PermaFrost NMR® technology specially formulated for these types of systems.  Measurement and 
Verification (M&V) was conducted pre-installation and post-gestation.
 
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly at the unit was solely attributable to the 
PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This is a result of the reversal of thermal inefficiency on heat exchange surfaces.  
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, the unit showed an effective net average 
15.9% reduction in kW/ton based on the exact capacity measured in the baseline M&V and the post 
gestation M&V. With the 26-ton unit operating at full load with all VAV boxes open at 100%, the system 
showed an average 1.3% reduction in kW consumption while simultaneously producing an increase in 
capacity of 3.8 tons. This 17.3% average capacity increase from the baseline performance level led to an 
effective average increase in COP of 19.4%. All of these factors directly correlate to what County Law Enforcement A 
will realize in energy savings as they operate this system in the future under the same parameters.
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, the system showed an average 2% reduction 
in amp draw while at the same time the unit was doing much more work. This is illustrated by the 21% 
increase in the enthalpy delta, which is a critical HVAC measurement used to determine the 
thermodynamic enhancement brought about by the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The result of the ECM 
improvement is an ROI to County Law Enforcement A that is measured in months. The tables of data are available for 
review at the end of this report. Financial calculations determining the true ROI are proprietary to Howard 
County under separate cover.  
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
