Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces. 
A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment was 
implemented to determine if the operational conditions of 
the system was satisfactory. Baseline M&V were recorded 
on both evaporators and the supporting compressor and 
then the proper amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® 
was injected. The gestation period for the Major Food Manufacturer pilot 
was just 3 weeks due to the heavy amount of runtime the 
system gets. Prior to taking Post measurements, systems 
need to achieve ~250 hours of runtime to ensure adequate 
performance improvement time. At the end of this 
gestation period, Post M&V results were taken in the 
identical manner as in the baseline, taking special care to match the same or very similar entering air dry 
bulb and compressor discharge pressures. These are two of the most critical variables to contend with in an 
in-situ refrigeration testing situation. When analyzing all of the data baseline and post data, no adjustments 
for weather were necessary. 
The following report produces the utilization of the International Performance Measurement and 
Verification Protocol (IPMVP) as the M&V plan. Major Food Manufacturer Distribution Manager [Client Representative] and 
S&S Refrigeration Engineer & Owner, Charles Sternberg witnessed the collection of all the data used in this 
report. The final calculations were performed by Powertron Global®’s Forensic Mechanical Engineer, 
[Senior Energy Engineer].  
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
