PermaFrost NMR® Performance Report
Major Food Manufacturer
August, 2013 
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® into one of seven refrigeration systems supporting the critical Major Food Manufacturer 
Provisions refrigerated  distribution facility at 17 Parkway Place, Edison, NJ. This system supplies two large 
evaporators. Detailed forensic performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the 
entire system using R22 as the refrigerant. Following testing, the system was treated with the proper 
amount and type of the PermaFrost NMR® technology specially formulated for these types of refrigeration 
systems.  Measurement and Verification (M&V) was conducted pre-installation and post-gestation.
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity 
gained directly at the units was solely attributable to the 
PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This is a result of the reversal of 
thermal inefficiency on heat exchange surfaces.  
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® 
technology, the refrigeration system showed an effective 
net average 35% reduction in kW/ton based on the exact 
capacity measured in the baseline M&V and the post 
gestation M&V when operating at 100% load. The effective 
kWh dropped by 4.8% while simultaneously producing an 
average increase in system efficiency of 46.5%. Prior to the 
ECM, the evaporators combined produced 6.06 tons of 
cooling as measured in-situ, or 66% of design. After the 
ECM, the average combined tonnage produced increased 
to 8.88 tons or 96.7% of original design specifications. This 
46.5% average capacity increase from the baseline 
performance levels led to an effective average increase in 
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
