       UL 984A: Testing UL classified lubricant for use with compressor motor insulating materials and 
refrigerants.
UL has developed specifications to classify lubricant used in sealed motor compressors of air conditioning and 
refrigeration equipment.  The UL program covers lubricants and the indicated refrigerants for all
insulating materials used in industry-recognized hermetic refrigerant motor-compressors.
       ASHRAE 86 - 1994: Completed Refrigeration oil floc point, °F.
The temperature in which waxy materials in lubricating oil separate from a mixture of oil and refrigerant, giving a 
cloudy appearance. This test is important in that it evaluates the tendency of refrigeration oils to plug expansion valves 
or capillaries in refrigeration systems.
Results: - 60°F
       ASHRAE 99: Completed Refrigeration oil description.
Refrigeration oils can be described as those that operate with certain values of different refrigerants. Separation, 
temperature, and viscosity are a few examples. This test examines these parameters and defines
oil as refrigerant compatible.
Results: refrigerant compatible
       ASTM D1500: Completed Color scale
This test is used to compare a range of colors against the colors of other petroleum products. This is the most common 
test, extensively used for industrial and process oils.
Results: <.05
Results: 2400ft/lbs@1 min before failure. Exceeds standards
       ASTM D2783: Standard Test Method for Measurement of Extreme Pressure Properties of Lubricating Fluids
(Four-Ball Method)
5
Test Descriptions and Results
SINCE 1985 
Quality Controlled Through Analysis 
Certificate of Analysis 
[Laboratory Address] 
[Laboratory PO Box] 
TEL: [redacted] 
FAX: [redacted] 
This test method, used for specification purposes, differentiates between lubricating fluids having low, medium, and high 
level of extreme-pressure properties. In the Four-ball method, the anti-wear property is determined from the average 
scar diameter on the stationary balls and is stated in terms of a load-wear index. The smaller the scar, the better the 
load-wear index. The maximum load carrying capability is defined in terms of a weld point; i.e. the load at which 
welding by frictional heat occurs.
