®
1
Background
This report details the results of the recently completed comprehensive energy performance pilot study 
conducted at two Regional Telecom Communications locations in Bull Head City and Kingman, AZ. This study focused 
on three large Roof Top HVAC Package Units (RTUs) supporting the switch rooms at both of these mixed use 
sites. The equipment tested included a 30-ton RTU, 25-ton RTU and a 20-ton RTU.  
All the measurements for this pilot followed the International Measurement and Verification Protocols 
(IPMVP). The IPMVP is endorsed by the US Department of Energy as the best method for measuring capacity, 
performance and efficiency of HVAC systems in-situ.  
The same certified test equipment was used under identical weather conditions in both the baseline and post 
collection periods and photographic evidence is available of all key measurements. This ensured that all the 
benefits produced could definitively be attributed to the PermaFrost NMR® energy conservation measure (ECM).
Overview
Running from 4 February to 4 March, 2016, the Regional Telecom Communications pilot was designed to illustrate the 
positive impact PermaFrost NMR® would have on the capacity, performance, and overall efficiency measured 
in kW/ton of the three pilot RTUs.
As demonstrated in this field trial, PermaFrost NMR restores the capacity on the RTUs that has been lost over 
time due to fouling of the heat exchange surfaces. The ECM will immediately benefit Regional Telecom in any or all of 
the following ways:
 
• Restoring capacity of the systems to satisfy fluctuating building loads or lower room temps
 
• Producing additional system redundancy at no extra cost or interruption to operations 
 
• Improving system efficiency, lowering cost to produce each ton of cooling required (kW/ton)
 
• Restoring thermal efficiency, allowing systems to achieve thermostat set points faster, reducing 
 
    runtime and extending equipment life by 15% or more 
 
• Reducing annual kWh usage by the HVAC systems
 
 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
