Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content of the following report will demonstrate the effects of PermaFrost NMR®’s ability to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces. 
It was determined with Major Golf Organization HQ to treat two small split system DX units. A diagnostic examination of 
the pilot equipment is implemented to determine if the unit’s operational conditions are satisfactory. 
Baseline measurements will be recorded and then the proper amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® will be 
injected. The product will be allowed 4 weeks to seat itself into the metal surfaces. At the end of this 
gestation period, Post M&V results were taken in the identical manner as in the baseline, taking special care 
to match the same or very similar entering air temperatures and compressor discharge pressures. These are 
the two most critical measurements affected by the weather. Some units in this report required 
normalization due to weather.
It was determined with Steve Cantrell of the Major Golf Organization HQ that the units run approximately 3,000 hours 
annually at a kWh cost of .1204 cents per kW. 
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP International Performance Measurement and 
Verification Protocol as the M&V plan. Powertron Global’s Forensic Mechanical Engineer, Edward R. 
[Senior Energy Engineer], performed the final calculations and measurements.
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
kW= Volts X Amps * .9 / 1000 (single phase)
Btuh Capacity = Measured CFM X 4.5 * Calculated Enthalpy Delta 
System Eﬃciency % = Actual Coil Capacity Btuh / Nominal Coil Capacity Btuh
kW per Ton = Measured kW / Measured Tons
COP = 12 / kW per ton / 3.412
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
