PermaFrost NMR® Performance Report
Major Golf Organization HQ
June 30, 2013 
Executive Summary
        This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® for Major Golf Organization HQ located in Ponte Verde, FL. Detailed forensic performance 
testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on 2 split system DX units. 
Immediately following the baseline testing, the units were treated with the proper amount and type of 
PermaFrost NMR® product formulated for R-22 DX systems. Since there were no other ECM’s going on 
during this pilot project, the improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly at the units is 
solely attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. The units now provide cooler/drier supply air while 
using less power. This greater operational efficiency is due to the restoration of the heat transfer ability of 
the evaporator and condenser coils.
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, the 2 units showed an average 35.9% 
reduction in kW/ton based on the exact capacity measured in the baseline M&V and the post gestation 
M&V. The units showed an average 50.9% reduction in kWh. Prior to the ECM, the units produced a total of 
4.64 tons of cooling. After the ECM, the tonnage produced increased to 6.09 tons. This capacity increase 
from the baseline performance level led to an effective net average increase in COP of 71.5%. All of these 
factors directly correlate to what Major Golf Organization HQ building will realize in energy savings as they operate these 
units in the future under the same parameters.
The result of the ECM improvements is a ROI to the customer of a matter of months. The tables of data and 
financial calculations are available for review at the end of this report.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
