The CRAC cooling systems involved in the study are recorded as follows:
 
Liebert, Mfg date: 2000, R22, Nominal 20-tons, 480 volt-3 Phase, Model CVE240GAAET
 
Liebert, Mfg date: 2001, R22, Nominal 24-tons, 480 volt-3 Phase, Model VH290AUAGEI
Objectives
The four key objectives for this jointly-conducted PermaFrost NMR® pilot study between EET, Powertron Global 
and Regional Telecom were all achieved.  They included: 
 
1. Determine that the “as-is” capacity and efﬁciency of the pilot CRAC systems supporting the 
 
    Regional Telecom complex had degraded by at least 10% after 14 years in operation.  
 
2. Demonstrate at least 15% performance improvement in tonnage and/or corresponding kW/ton and 
 
    energy reduction in the pilot CRAC cooling systems four weeks after PermaFrost NMR® and the Circuit 
 
    Master® devices were installed. 
 
3. Demonstrate the ability of the CRAC pilot systems to produce cooler, drier air as measured in both Dry 
 
    Bulb and Wet Bulb deltas after being treated.  
 
4. To support an effective business case for further deployments of the ECMs within the Regional Telecom 
 
    portfolio of properties, demonstrate ﬁnancial beneﬁts associated with efﬁciency improvements 
 
    realized over the duration of the study. These beneﬁts must be equivalent to a 24-month or less 
 
    payback to Regional Telecom on their initial project costs.
ECM Product Briefs
PermaFrost NMR® is a multi-patented surface science nanotechnology that uses Nucleo Molecular Regenerative 
(NMR®) technology as its core agent. A sustainable, one-time treatment with no down time required, PermaFrost 
NMR® lasts for the remaining life of any type of climate control system in which it is installed.  The direct beneﬁts 
of PermaFrost NMR® are improved cooling efﬁciency and increased capacity. 
 
Circuit Master® is a product that blocks distortions in electrical power above and below the normal signal range 
and contains line ﬁlter capacitors to improve power factor. This allows induction power equipment such as HVAC, 
refrigeration, motors and pumps to use less energy.  Equipment lifespan is also increased and maintenance costs 
are reduced. This equipment is installed at the electrical disconnect for each machine or at each compressor in a 
dual-circuit HVAC unit where both compressors run an extensive amount of time annually.
  
4
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
