 Study Overview
This report details the results of the recently completed comprehensive energy performance study conducted at 
the Regional Telecom Headquarters in Show Low, AZ. 
Running from August 21 to October 15, 2015, the pilot was designed to illustrate the positive impact the 
PermaFrost NMR® and Circuit Master (CM) energy control measures (ECMs) would have on the overall cooling 
and energy performance of data center Computer Room Air Conditioning (CRAC) systems.  
 As demonstrated in this ﬁeld trial, PermaFrost NMR® restores the cooling capacity on the CRAC systems lost over 
time due to thermal degradation of the heat exchange surfaces, while the CM devices treat the power supplying 
the systems. Working together, the ECMs will beneﬁt Regional Telecom in any or all of the following ways:
 
• Restore capacity of the CRAC systems to satisfy ﬂuctuating building loads or lower room temps
 
• Produce additional CRAC system redundancy at no extra cost or interruption to operations
 
 
• Improve CRAC system efﬁciency, lowering cost to produce each ton of cooling required
 
 
• Restoring thermal efﬁciency, allowing CRAC systems to achieve thermostat set points faster
 
 
• Improve CRAC system performance, reducing runtime and extending equipment life by 15%+ 
 
 
• Reduce amp draw and peak demand charges (KVA) while increasing Power Factor utilization
 
 
• Produce cooler operating temperatures of compressors, reducing service calls 
The improvements demonstrated in this or any ﬁeld test resulting from PermaFrost NMR® and Circuit Master are 
dependent on factors such as age, condition, service history, runtime of one or both compressors and the design 
and application of each system. The results in this pilot were very consistent with 10+ year historical performance 
averages as well as the recent laboratory study completed in May, 2015 on DX equipment by Underwriters 
Laboratories (UL) in their testing chambers in [Texas Location], TX.
Setting the Stage for the Study
The location chosen for this pilot is a small data center that is supported mainly by the two pilot CRAC systems as 
well as a smaller cooling system in a separate room off the main ﬂoor. The conﬁguration of this facility puts the 
major load on CRAC system #2 which encompasses the bulk of the servers and the Network Operations Center 
(NOC). CRAC system #1 supports a less densely populated area of the main ﬂoor. At the start of the pilot, both 
CRAC systems were set on 68 degrees. A temperature and humidity logger was placed in the center of the main 
ﬂoor to monitor the room temperature. At the start of the pilot the average temperature in the data center was 
74.85 degrees and the humidity averaged 32%. CRAC system #1 was able to satisfy its set point and cycle off 
occasionally while CRAC system #2 could never satisfy set point and thus never shut off.
2
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
