®
2
Process
This comprehensive report contains specific information regarding the performance profile of a single 
water-cooled DX chiller (DXC) that supports the Beverage Company Coffee & Creamery factory. The detailed performance 
testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the DXC before (baseline) and after (post) the 
installation of PermaFrost NMR®. 
This testing determined the impact on three key elements relating to the original design specifications that 
greatly affect the HVAC portion of the Beverage Company Coffee & Creamery power bill. They include:
 
1. The cooling capacity the DXC is capable of producing after fourteen (14) years in service. 
 
2. The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling the DXC is delivering as 
 
    reflected in the kWEnergy /kWRefrigeration measurement. 
 
3. The thermal dynamic ability of the equipment to still perform at or close to operational design.  
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework.
 
The baseline day chosen to test the DXC’s 
was an average day temperature and 
humidity-wise for the Johannesburg area in 
the early spring which ensured repeatability 
of similar weather for the post testing 
measurements.  The weather and facility 
conditions on both days provided an 
adequate heat load on the facility to ensure 
the compressor in the system would remain 
fully loaded and running during the actual 
data collection period. The boundary of the 
testing was the DXC and nothing else; 
therefore confidence in the accuracy of the 
performance calculations is very high.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
