®
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Report
Purpose of Energy Eﬃciency Study
Thermal degradation is well documented by the 
American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air 
Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) and the original 
equipment manufacturers (OEM’s). It is a major cause 
of capacity loss in Heating, Ventilation, Air 
Conditioning and Refrigeration (HVACR) systems, 
preventing them from operating at the original design 
efficiency soon after initial installation in the field. 
The purpose of this study is to verify the effectiveness of the PermaFrost NMR® Energy Conservation Measure 
(ECM) in the water-cooled DX Chiller (DXC) pictured below at the Beverage Company Coffee & Creamery factory and 
document the future avoided energy costs associated with the same.  
Summary Results
This comprehensive report contains specific information regarding the performance profile of a 59.8 kWR DXC 
Beverage Company Coffee & Creamery factory in Isando, South Africa.
At the conclusion of the pilot, the DXC showed an annual 19,536 kWh reduction while increasing the capacity 
of the DXC by 57.6% from 23.21 kWR in the baseline to 36.58 kWR in the post. The pilot DXC also showed a 
25% reduction in kWEnergy/KWRefrigeration and a 25.3% reduction in annual kW usage. These efficiency 
improvements equate to an Initial Payback Period (IPP) of the ECM project for Beverage Company Coffee & Creamery of 19 
months and a corresponding Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 56.1%  
Further details of the measurements are described in the various sections later in this report. All testing was 
conducted by Powertron Global’s Director of Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer] while being assisted and 
witnessed throughout by [Client Director of Engineering] of Beverage Company/Beverage Company and [HVAC Technician] of HVAC Contractor B.  
1
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
