1
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Report
Purpose of Energy Eﬃciency Study
The purpose of this study is to verify the industry wide problem of efficiency loss in HVAC/R as projected by 
ASHRAE research and to quantify the amount of money wasted due to this loss. Many industry leading 
organizations including ASHRAE project that all HVAC/R units degrade in capacity and efficiency as they age. 
Thermal degradation is caused by a phenomenon that is present in all HVAC/R equipment that operates as a 
vapor compression cycle associated with refrigerant and oil for lubrication. This thermal degradation is well 
documented by the HVAC/R industry and the original equipment manufacturers (OEM’s). Thermal 
degradation prevents units from operating at the original design efficiency, which leads to excessive run-times 
and additional kWh consumption.
The chiller in this study is representative of a great majority of the portfolio of equipment operated by the 
customer. If thermal degradation is present in this chiller it is present in the entire inventory of equipment. 
Energy waste can be calculated based on this equipment (portfolio representation) and then accurately 
extrapolated across the entire inventory of equipment.
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of one chiller that 
support the location in New York City. 
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the chiller before and after the 
installation of the ECM to determine the impact on the three key elements that greatly affect the HVAC power 
bill as they relate to the original design specifications:
1. The cooling capacity the chiller produces after 27 years in service, before and after the
administration of the ECM.
2. The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the chiller can deliver as
reflected in the kW/ton measurement, before and after the administration of the ECM.
3. The thermal dynamic ability of the chiller to perform in relation to operational design, before and
after the administration of the ECM.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
