Energy Performance Report
Major Global Bank - Property Management Company
May 30, 2013 
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® in chiller for Major Global Bank /Property Management Company building located in Irving, TX. Detailed 
forensic performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on a 380-ton McQuay 
water-cooled chiller unit using R-134A refrigerant. Powertron Global® would like to thank the local team 
personnel of Property Management Company [Chief Engineer], Chief Engineer, and [Assistant Chief Engineer], assistant Chief Engineer, 
at the Las Collinas facility for assisting and overseeing the completion of this project for Major Global Bank. 
Immediately following the baseline testing, the unit were treated with the proper amount and type of 
PermaFrost NMR® product formulated for R-134A refrigerant type chiller systems. Since there were no 
other ECM’s going on during this pilot project, the improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained 
directly at the units is solely attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This greater operational efficiency 
is due to the restoration of the heat transfer ability of the cooler and condenser tubes.
Following treatment with PermaFrost NMR®, while operating at 100% load, the chiller showed a significant 
reduction in kW/Ton of 9.6% and a 11% improvement in COP. As individual measurements this chiller 
showed a 3.3% reduction in kW and a 3.7% reduction in Amps while at the same time while producing an 
additional 23 tons. 
It is also important to note that PermaFrost NMR® will often reclaim energy robbing oil that is trapped  in 
the lower refrigerant sector of the cooler (evaporator) of chillers.  [Assistant Chief Engineer], the plant operator and 
assistant chief engineer with Property Management Company, had noticed after 4-5 days of the application of PermaFrost NMR® the oil 
indicating site glass was demonstrating signs of filling. It seemed that eventually the oil level would surpass 
the manufacturers operating level. Mr. [Senior Energy Engineer] of Powertron Global® was notified of this during his 
return for the post results. A request was made of [Assistant Chief Engineer] to wait one additional week before removing 
this excess oil to ensure PermaFrost NMR® arrived at the period of gestation so to assure complete 
adsorption into the interior surfaces of the chiller components.  [Assistant Chief Engineer] had informed Powertron Global® 
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
