Executive Summary
This report contains specific information regarding the installation of PermaFrost NMR® in the 7.5-ton York 
DX Split HVAC unit at Regional Healthcare Provider School Finance Office.  The unit is owned and maintained by 
Regional Healthcare Provider (heretofore referred to as The School) located in Ridgely, MD. [Director of Facilities], Director of 
Facilities, oversaw the trial. 
The improved/restored efficiency on the unit directly attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM was 
substantial.  The unit now provides cooler supply air with greater efficiency due to the restoration of the 
heat transfer capacity of the evaporator and condenser coils and increased the available useful tonnage. 
The pool area was in use in the Post testing period and unoccupied during Pre testing.  When the pool is in 
use the door to the locker room and the hallway entering the entrance area to the locker room is wedged 
open in case of an emergency and the possible need of emergency response.  This allows the very moist and 
warm air to enter the building finance side of the building.  During the Post testing period there was an 
enormous load coming from the pool. 
The overall system efficiency improved by 18% and the EER improved by 48.7%.  There was an increase in 
coil capacity of 16,200 in Btuh which equates to gaining 1.35-tons of capacity or 20.9%.  There is also a 
reduction of 32.7% in total power and watts per ton which is another measurable way to view the 
thermodynamic enhancement of the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The tables of data and financial calculations 
are available for review at the end of this report.  The result of these combined ECM improvements is an 
ROI to The School of 1.7 years.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
