PermaFrost NMR® Performance Report
Major Financial Services Firm Oﬃce Park
November, 2013 
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® into one (1) DX unit located at 2401 West Bay Dr., Largo, FL. Detailed forensic 
performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on this unit owned by Major Financial Services Firm 
Office Park. Following testing, the unit was treated with the proper amount and type of the PermaFrost 
NMR® technology specially formulated for these types of systems.
Measurement and Verification (M&V) was conducted to establish an initial energy baseline and a post 
avoided energy-reporting period. The purpose of the testing was to show how the ECM improves the 
thermal performance of any system it is installed in. The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity 
gained directly at each unit was solely attributable to PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This is a result of the 
reversal of thermal inefficiency on the heat exchanger surfaces.
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology the Aircoaire DX unit showed an effective net 
average 28.2% reduction in kW/ton and an increase in capacity of 25.2%. The operating tonnage grew from 
4.6 tons to 5.76 tons. This capacity increase from the baseline performance level resulted in an effective 
average increase in COP of 39.3%. All of these factors directly correlate to what the customer will realize in 
energy savings as they operate this chiller in the future under the same parameters.
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, the refrigerant approach was also lowered 
from 21.8°F to 15.1°F. This represents a 30.7% improvement in approach, which is another measureable way 
to determine the thermodynamic enhancement brought about by the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.
The result of the ECM improvements is an ROI to Major Financial Services Firm Office Park of 10 months. The tables of 
data used to determine the financial payback are available for review at the end of this report.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
