PermaFrost NMR® Eﬃciency Report
Regional Cable Provider - Data Center
May, 2013
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information   regarding the installation of the energy control measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® in the two HVAC Computer room Air Conditioners (CRACs) serving the data 
center at the Regional Cable Provider facility located at 2112 West Tilghman Street, Allentown, PA. Detailed forensic 
performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on both of the nominal 20-ton CRAC units, 
each outfitted with two compressors using R22 refrigerant. Following testing, the CRACs were treated with 
the proper amount and type of the PermaFrost NMR® technology specially formulated for these types of 
systems.  Measurement and Verification (M&V) was conducted pre-installation and post-gestation.
 
The improvement in efficiency and restored 
capacity gained directly across both systems 
was solely attributable to the PermaFrost 
NMR® ECM. This is a result of the reversal of 
thermal inefficiency on heat exchange surfaces, creating 
greater efficiency in refrigerant approach and 
the thermal energy transfer abilities of the 
cooler and condenser vessels. 
Following treatment with the PermaFrost 
NMR® technology, the systems showed an 
effective net average 41.4% reduction in 
kW/ton based on the exact capacity measured 
in the baseline M&V and the post gestation M&V. With each of the 20-ton CRACs operating at full load, the 
systems showed an average 24.2% reduction in kW consumption while simultaneously producing an 
increase in average capacity of 4.3 tons. This 31.9% average capacity increase from the baseline performance 
levels produced an effective average increase in system efficiency of 31.9%, which directly correlates to what 
Regional Cable Provider will realize in energy savings as they operate these systems in the future under the same parameters. 
Driving these savings was an average 23.5% reduction in amp draw under full load conditions.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
