Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces. 
A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment was implemented to determine if the unit’s operational 
conditions were satisfactory. Baseline M&V were recorded and then the proper amount and type of 
PermaFrost NMR® was injected. The gestation period for the Regional Cable Provider pilot was six (6) weeks on these 
particular CRACs to allow them each to achieve the required ~300 hours of runtime on each system to 
ensure adequate performance improvement time. At the end of this gestation period, Post M&V results 
were taken in the identical manner as in the baseline, taking special care to match the same or very similar 
entering air temperatures and compressor discharge pressures. These are the two most critical 
measurements affected by the weather. When analyzing the data, no adjustments for weather were 
necessary.
 
The following report produces the utilization of the International Performance Measurement and 
Verification Protocol (IPMVP) as the M&V plan. Mike Romanovitch and Jeff Stage from Regional Cable Provider witnessed the 
collection of the data used in this report. The final calculations were performed by Powertron Global’s 
Forensic Mechanical Engineer, [Senior Energy Engineer].  
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
BTUH = CFM * 4.5 (standard air) * Calculated Enthalpy Delta
 
kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
 
Percentage Eﬃciency = Measured BTUH / Manufacturers Design BTUH
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
