1
Background
This report details the results of the recently completed comprehensive energy performance pilot study 
conducted at the Space Center A Visitor Complex located along the NASA Causeway in 
Titusville, Florida.  This study looked at three common types of HVAC/R equipment supporting Space Center A Visitor Complex as 
well as the majority of the other properties Hospitality Management Company manages and operates for clients. The equipment 
tested included a 240-ton air cooled chiller, a 10-ton split system, and and a small walk-in cooler (WIC).
All the measurements for this pilot were taken and certified by Test & Balance Company A (T&B Company A), a 
highly respected Test & Balance company based in Lutz, FL.  All testing followed the International 
Measurement and Verification Protocols (IPMVP). The IPMVP is endorsed by the US Department of Energy as 
the best method for measuring capacity, performance and efficiency of HVAC/R systems in-situ. 
T&B Company A took care to use the same certified test equipment and measure in the same fashion under identical 
weather conditions in both the baseline and post collection periods. This ensured that all the benefits produced 
could definitively be attributed to the PermaFrost NMR® energy conservation measure (ECM). 
Overview
Running from November 24, 2015 to January 26, 2016, the pilot was designed to illustrate the positive impact 
PermaFrost NMR® would have on the capacity, performance and overall efficiency measured in kW/ton and 
COP of the three pilot HVAC/R systems.
As demonstrated in this field trial, PermaFrost NMR® restores the capacity on the HVAC/R systems that has 
been lost over time due to fouling of the heat exchange surfaces. The ECM will immediately benefit Space Center A Visitor Complex in 
any or all of the following ways:
 
• Restoring capacity of the systems to satisfy fluctuating building loads or lower room temps
 
• Producing additional system redundancy at no extra cost or interruption to operations 
 
• Improving system efficiency, lowering cost to produce each ton of cooling required (kW/ton & COP)
 
• Restoring thermal efficiency, allowing systems to achieve thermostat set points faster, reducing runtime 
 
   and extending equipment life 
 
• Reducing annual kWh usage by the HVAC systems 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
