®
2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of one of three main 
chillers that support the Hollywood Casino St. Louis. 
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the pilot chiller before and after 
the installation of the PermaFrost NMR® to determine the impact on the three key elements that greatly affect 
Major Gaming Company’s HVAC power bill as they relate to the original design specifications:
 
 
1.  The cooling capacity the chiller is capable of producing after 17 years in service. 
 
2.  The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the chiller is delivering as 
 
     reflected in the kW/ton measurement. 
 
3.  The thermal dynamic ability of the chiller to still perform at or close to operational design.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team was led by Penn 
Gaming’s Facility Manager, [Client Representative] and [Client Representative], facilities technician. Also playing a key role in 
the pilot was Murphy Mechanical Services’ Jeff Gumm, Sr. Mechanical Engineer and [Senior Energy Engineer], 
Director of Engineering for Powertron Global.  The overall project was managed and directed by Joelle 
Shearin, Asst. General Manager for Hollywood Casino St. Louis.  
Engineering Notes 
Both the baseline and post readings were taken at 90% load with incoming condenser water at 84 degrees and incoming 
chilled water at 55 degrees, therefore no adjustments were made to the resulting data. Major Gaming Company’s management of the 
chiller plant combined with the building load during the trial provided more than an adequate heat load on the facility to 
ensure the chiller would remain running during the actual data collection period.  
The chiller was tested over the span of nearly three months. During the trial the chiller experienced an unrelated oil seal 
failure and loss of some oil & refrigerant. Oil samples from the chiller at the time of the seal failure revealed the oil was still 
serviceable with no abnormalities present. Since PermaFrost NMR® had already had time to seat into the metal surfaces of 
the heat exchanges, the chiller did not need to be retreated. Once put back into operation, the chiller was allowed to run for 
an additional week before post readings were taken.
The boundary of the testing was the chiller and nothing else, therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance 
calculations is very high.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
