®
3
Energy Conservation Method (ECM)
The content detailed in this report will first demonstrate the ability of the pilot chiller to perform prior to the 
PermaFrost NMR® (ECM) being installed, as well as illustrate the amount of thermal degradation due in large 
part to thermal degradation within the heat exchangers (evaporator and condenser barrels).  The following report 
produces the utilization of the IPMVP as the M&V plan. 
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following applicable thermodynamic 
engineering formulas:
 
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
 
• Actual Cooling Tons per Hour = Evaporator GPM X 8.34 * 60 * Chilled Water Delta T / 12,000 BTU 
 
• Refrigerant Approach = Supply Water Temp – Saturated Evaporator Temp (CH) 
Notes 
Following a diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment to determine the 
operational condition of the systems, it was determined that the chiller had a 
much higher volume of water flowing through it than design so the team 
adjusted it downward to OEM specifications. With all other chiller 
conditions deemed satisfactory, Baseline M&V data was collected and 
recorded by the M&V team. 
Three months after installation of the ECM, the M&V team returned to take 
Post M&V measurements in the identical fashion as in the Baseline. The 
delta of these measurements and associated calculations show the amount of 
capacity restored.
The collection of the data in both the baseline and post periods was collected 
by Powertron Global and witnessed by Major Gaming Company’s facility technician.  
Photographic evidence of the measurements is available upon request. The 
measurements are listed below. 
M&V team works to adjust flow rates through 
the chiller’s evaporator and condenser barrels, 
restoring them to York specifications before 
recording all the baseline readings.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
