Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces. 
Following a diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment to determine the operational condition of the 
CRAC units was satisfactory, Baseline M&V data was collected and recorded prior to the proper amount 
and type of PermaFrost NMR® being injected. The gestation 
period for the US Internet Provider pilot was four (4) weeks. Prior to taking 
AERP measurements, systems need to achieve ~300 hours of 
runtime to ensure adequate performance improvement time. At 
the end of this gestation period, AERP M&V results were taken 
in the identical manner as in the baseline.  For the Control CRAC 
unit, only post readings were taken as it was randomly selected 
by US Internet Provider management to be checked to see what its new 
performance efficiency after treatment with PermaFrost NMR®.
Incoming condenser water to each of the units was carefully 
metered to ensure it was the same temperature in both data 
collection periods. This action also allowed the discharge 
pressures of the compressors to be very similar so no 
adjustments were necessary for weather. 
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP as the M&V plan.
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas: 
 
kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
Ton = (Airﬂow * 4.5 * Enthalpy Delta) / 12,000 
 
kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
 
Coeﬃcient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
Energy Science Division
The M&V team collects critical IPMVP 
measurements such as air flow and pressure drop 
across the coil using the latest, most accurate digital 
NIST calibrated testing equipment as part of the 
scientific PermaFrost NMR® performance pilot.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
