It should be noted when reading through this report that the two pilot CRAC units had lower than 
design airflow measured across the coils which contributes to the slightly higher deltas seen in the 
baseline measurements. The CFM in the control unit was much closer to its design. However, this pilot is 
all about showing the delta effects resulting from improving the thermal dynamic characteristics of the 
CRAC units which are clearly evident in the performance data stated below. The improvement in 
efficiency and restored capacity gained directly at the units was solely attributable to the PermaFrost 
NMR® ECM. This is a result of the reversal of thermal inefficiency on heat exchange surfaces.  
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, units 3 and 4 showed an effective reduction 
in kW of 6.1% and 10.7% respectively based on the exact capacity measured in the baseline M&V and 
AERP M&V periods when operating at 100% load. The effective annual kWh were reduced by 63,707 in 
unit 3 and 42,558 in unit 4, equating to a combined 29.2% reduction while simultaneously producing a 
total increase of 9.57 tons. This equates to an average 30% increase in tonnage across both units and a 
reduction in average kW/ton of 29.2%. Prior to the ECM, the units produced a combined 31.96 tons of 
cooling as measured in-situ. After the ECM, the tonnage produced increased to 41.53 tons. This 30% 
capacity increase from the baseline performance levels, in combination with other related improvements, 
led to an effective increase in COP across both units of 42.2%. All of these factors directly correlate to 
what US Internet Provider will realize in energy savings as they operate this and other facility CRAC units in the 
future under similar parameters. As a case in point, the 22-ton control CRAC unit selected at random by 
US Internet Provider was measured in-situ after treatment to be producing 20.84 tons of cooling, or 95% of design.
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® ECM, the two pilot CRAC units also showed average 
reduction in amp draw of 8.4% and a 32.4% reduction in the average refrigeration approach while at the 
same time producing 30% more cooling. All the measurements mentioned combine to reflect the 
thermodynamic enhancement brought about by the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. The result of the ECM 
improvement is an ROI to US Internet Provider that is measured in under a year. The tables of data used to 
determine the financial payback are available for review at the end of this report. 
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
