PermaFrost NMR® Eﬃciency Report
US Internet Provider CRAC Units
November, 2013
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy conservation method 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® into two Leibert Computer Room Air Conditioning (CRAC) units using R22 
refrigerant supporting the US Internet Provider data center located in downtown [Southeast Location].
Detailed forensic performance testing (outlined later in 
this report) was performed on the two pilot CRAC 
units to determine their suitability for testing and their 
performance capability after 14 years in service. 
Following testing, these CRAC units, as well as all the 
other CRAC units in the facility, were treated with the 
proper amount and type of the PermaFrost NMR® 
technology specially formulated for these types of 
machines. Measurement and Verification (M&V) 
readings were collected and compiled in accordance 
with the IPMVP (International Measurement and 
Verification Protocol) framework pre-installation and 
post-gestation by the Powertron Global’s Director of 
Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer]. Frank Wilcox, 
US Internet Provider Data Center Manager, and Ralph Moore, 
Chief Technician for US Internet Provider oversaw the process. Jay 
Evans, US Internet Provider’s senior on-site technician provided 
direct support to the team. This same US Internet Provider 
management team also selected a third unit to serve as 
a blind control unit when the M&V team returned for 
the avoided energy reporting period (AERP) readings. 
This control unit was installed at the same time as the 
two pilot units and provided US Internet Provider with additional 
evidence that the ECM worked the same in all the units.
Energy Science Division
An image of one of the 20-ton Leibert CRAC units involved 
in the PermaFrost NMR® pilot. 
Powertron’s Director of Engineering goes over baseline 
IPMVP results with US Internet Provider Managers.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
