®
5
Engineering Notes
Following a diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment to determine the operational condition of the units were 
satisfactory, Baseline M&V data was collected and recorded by the M&V team with assistance from HVAC Services Provider. Units 
51 and 52 were initially tested and treated on 16 July 2014 and had 400+ runtime hours after installation of the ECM 
before the post readings were taken on 25 Sept 2014. Due to some maintenance and scheduling issues, units 50 and 57 
were not initially tested and treated until 14 Aug 2014 and had just over 300 runtime hours while the chiller, which was 
also tested and treated on 14 Aug, had just under 250 runtime hours on it when post readings were taken on 25 Sept 
2014. Since the combined results were well within expected savings parameters, no further readings are necessary.  
Both the baseline dates were nearly identical weather and building load perspective. The scheduled post reading date was 
somewhat cooler but the internal building load was the same in three of the spaces served by the units. To replicate 
similar weather conditions on the RTUs, doors were opened to the compressors to get the head pressures to close to what 
they were in the baseline readings. Any shortfalls in pressures were adjusted for by raising the post amps accordingly. 
Due to differences in operational load, the area served by unit 50 was above the 1 degree entering air WB temperature 
difference testing parameters we normally accept to assure high confidence in the data but the team decided to leave it a 
part of the study for transparency. The load on circuit B of the chiller was much higher in the post (86.5%) than in the 
baseline (50%) and since circuit A was still down for maintenance the M&V team could not load limit the chiller to take 
measurements without negatively affecting laundry operations. For this portion of the test the key element to look at is the 
reduction of kW/ton. 
As expected in any in-situ testing, all the RTUs had varying airflows, refrigerant temps and enthalpy deltas which show 
up in the varying levels of performance. This is the reason to focus on the delta improvements both at each unit and as an 
aggregate. 
The collection of the data in both the baseline and post periods was collected by Powertron Global® while witnessed 
throughout by HVAC Services Provider technicians. Pictures were also taken of all the key readings used in the formulas and are 
available upon request.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
