Executive Summary
This report contains specific information regarding the installation of PermaFrost NMR® in a Carrier
Evergreen 510-ton Centrifugal Chiller supporting a mission-critical data center for a U.S. Communications
Company (heretofore referred to as The Company) located in Long Island, New York. 
Two Company representatives, one from Network Engineering and the other from Power and Energy 
Planning section of the Global Real Estate Department, managed this entire trial.  These two representatives 
were supported by The Company’s on-site contractor engineering support personnel.
In summary, The Company’s chiller treated with the PermaFrost NMR® ECM showed an 18.6% reduction 
in kW; a 12% reduction in required operating tonnage to deliver setpoint; a 7.6% reduction in kW/ton; an 
8.2% improvement in COP; a 56.8% improvement in refrigerant approach.
The chiller required 82% load in the post versus 100% load in the baseline to arrive at chilled water setpoint. 
Attempts were made to reach 100% load, however this chiller now has the ability to handle the complete 
load of the facility while operating at 82%.
This pilot machine provides chilled water at the measured GPM and now delivers design chilled water 
outlet setpoint temperature at reduced kWh while increasing tonnage per kW efficiency.  This allows the 
chiller to produce more tonnage while consuming less energy. The introduction of PermaFrost NMR® has 
restored a significant amount of chilled water capacity to support this critical facility which has resulted in 
much lower operational costs. 
Based on the data collected, the return on investment (ROI) for this ECM is just 4 months.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
