Energy Science Division
The machine loaded the compressor to 82% while attaining the chilled water set point of 43 degrees.  
During this performance improvement period, the energy consumption was reduced from 430 amps to 350 
amps (see photos).  Special notation should be made to the tonnage required to attain chilled water set point 
while using less electrical energy.  This is the tonnage that was required to deliver the chilled water set 
point.  While attaining the chilled water set point of 43 degrees, this machine only required the net 
refrigeration affect of 280 tons.  This is the result of the ECM enhancing the ability of the heat exchange 
surfaces of the chiller evaporator and condenser to transfer kinetic heat energy. 
As previously reported, all attempts were made to assure load stability for the baseline and avoided energy 
reporting periods.  All internal chilled water valves serving air handlers were digitally controlled to open fully 
to the 100% operating position during the pre and post measurement periods.  While it is always a concern to 
create similar operating conditions to generate examples of baseline energy consumption versus avoided 
energy reporting periods, this machine was driven to the maximum operating limits of the connected load.
Measurement confidence was confirmed that the avoided energy-reporting period was in excess of the 
chilled water load conditions experienced during the baseline-reporting period.  
This pilot machine provides chilled water at the measured GPM and now delivers design chilled water 
outlet set point temperature at reduced kWh while increasing tonnage per kW efficiency.  This allows the 
chiller to produce more tonnage while consuming less energy.  The introduction of PermaFrost NMR® has 
restored a significant amount of chilled water capacity to support this critical Company facility, which has 
resulted in much lower operational costs. 
Baseline Period 5/30/12                           Post Treatment Period 6/27/12
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
