Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces.
 
After consulting with Company personnel involved in the test, it was determined to treat this particular 
chiller since it serves as the primary chiller in the facility.  A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment 
was implemented to determine if the unit’s operational conditions were satisfactory.  Baseline 
measurements were recorded and then the proper amount and type of PermaFrost NMR® was injected. The 
product was then allowed 28 days to seat itself into the metal surfaces before post measurements were taken 
to establish the efficiency gains. 
The chiller was started and 100% load was attained by having the EMS command the opening all of the 
chilled water valves for the entire data-gathering period.  This data gathering baseline period did not 
contain variables of any consequence to alter the data.  The team waited 15 minutes before starting to record 
data to allow the chiller to stabilize fully. During this 15 minute wait period, the following parameters were 
recorded:
Chiller kW; Chilled Water Delta T; Condenser Water Delta T; Condensed Liquid Refrigerant Temperature; 
Saturated (Suction) Evaporator Refrigerant Temperature; Operating Tonnage; kW per Ton and COP.
The results of the above readings were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic 
engineering formulas:
•  To determine the kW, voltage, amperage and power factor, the team utilized data from the chiller digital 
and analog instrumentation for pre and post measurement. Those data streams were verified by the manual 
calculation for determining kW energy as:
 
Volts * Amps * .85 * 1.56 / 1000
•  To determine the actual GPM the following formula was utilized:
 
GPM2 = GPM * Measured Pressure Drop (ft) / by Design Pressure Drop (ft) (sqd)
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
