Energy Science Division
Conclusion
The resulting improvements in the performance efficiency of the chiller generated by the ECM are deemed 
to be substantial.  Prior to the introduction of PermaFrost NMR®, this chiller was introduced to a full load 
test.  This test determined the operational characteristics of the chiller’s ability to reach full load of design 
and performance.  The test also recorded the machine’s energy consumption while sustained at that load 
without load variance.  The outdoor air temperature during the baseline-testing period was 77 degrees and 
the set point of the chiller was adjusted to 43 degrees.  Chiller load was attributable to directing the energy 
management system to command all chilled water valves in the air handler directory to the 100% open 
position for the duration of this data gathering exercise. 
The machine loaded the compressor to 100% load while consuming 430 amps of electrical energy.  Note that 
this chiller was unable to attain the desired chilled water set point of 43 degrees during the baseline 
energy-testing period as full load limits were reached before the chilled water set point was achieved.  Also 
note that due to the energy load on the compressor, this machine was limited to the development of 381 
tons during this phase of the baseline test.
After the baseline testing, data was cataloged and PermaFrost NMR® was introduced into the suction and 
condensed liquid refrigerant inlet service ports.  This machine was then operated for a period of 28 days to 
provide the gestation period necessary for PermaFrost NMR® to absorb into all heat exchange surfaces.
Subsequent to the baseline test period for determining chiller performance and energy consumption, a 
replication of conditions were developed to determine the avoided cost of performance and operating levels 
(post testing period).  The outdoor temperature during this post-test was slightly warmer at 79 degrees and 
the set point was again adjusted to 43 degrees.  Once again, chiller load was attributable to directing the 
energy management system to command all chilled water valves in the air handler directory to the 100% 
open position for the duration of the post or (avoided energy) data gathering period of this exercise (or test). 
This is the identical load profile used for the baseline-testing period of the ECM.  Note that load was slightly 
greater than the baseline-reporting period due to the outdoor air temperature being higher.  No adjustments 
were made in the baseline reading to reflect this increase in outdoor air temperature so as to reflect 
confidence in the energy savings produced.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
