                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2
Process
This comprehensive report contains specific information regarding the performance profiles of three of the 19 
packaged roof top units (RTU’s) that support the Major US Warehouse Retailer facility in [Florida Location]. A second report will focus 
on the substantial refrigeration plant in the store.
For this phase, detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the RTUs before (baseline) 
and after (post) the installation of the ECM. This testing determined the impact on three key elements relating 
to the original design specifications that greatly affect the HVAC portion of Major US Warehouse Retailer’s power bill. They include:
1.  The cooling capacity the RTUs are capable of producing after 11 years in service. 
2.  The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the RTUs are delivering as reflected 
     in the kW/ton measurement. 
3.  The thermal dynamic ability of the equipment to still perform at or close to operational design. 
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework and the standards set forth by the 
National Environmental Balancing Bureau (NEBB). 
 
 
David Millard, Certified TAB Technician with Test & Balance Company A (T&B Company A), 
 
 
recorded all of the pilot measurements while being observed by Powertron Global’s Director of 
 
 
Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer]. The T&B Company A report is attached as Appendix A at the end of this report. 
The baseline day chosen to test the RTU’s was an average day temperature and humidity-wise for the 
[Florida Location] area which ensured repeatability of similar weather for the post testing measurements. The 
weather conditions along with the weekday lunchtime crowds patronizing the facility provided an adequate 
heat load on the facility to ensure all compressors would remain running during the actual data collection 
period required for each. The boundary of the testing was each of the RTU’s and nothing else; therefore 
confidence in the accuracy of the performance calculations is very high.
 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
