3
Energy Conservation Method (ECM)
The content detailed in the first phase of this report will first demonstrate the ability of the three pilot RTUs to 
perform prior to the ECM being installed, as well as illustrate the amount of thermal degradation within the 
heat exchangers.
 
Following a diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment to determine the operational condition of the 
systems was satisfactory, Baseline M&V data was collected and recorded by the M&V team. Approximately 
one month after installation of the ECM, the M&V team returned on a very similar weather day to the Baseline 
to take Post M&V measurements in the identical fashion as in the Baseline. The delta of these measurements 
and associated calculations show the amount of capacity restored.
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP as the M&V plan. 
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
• Ton = (Airflow * 4.5 * Enthalpy Delta) / 12,000 
• kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
Notes 
The IPMVP data points were recorded and certified by the T&B Company A Certified TAB 
Technician on 4 April 2014 and again on 8 May 2014 using recently calibrated 
devices by NIST (National Institutes of Standards and Technology) to insure 
measurement accuracy. The three RTUs were then treated with PermaFrost 
NMR® following recording of the measurements on 4 April 2014 and allowed 
to run normally until 8 May 2014 to ensure the patented surface science 
nanotechnology ECM had ample time to seat into all the metal surfaces of the 
heat exchangers. All measurements were taken at full load (all compressors 
running) and at identical outdoor air temperatures and similar mid-day times 
and numbers of shoppers.
To ensure the integrity of the data, the collection of the measurements in both 
the baseline and post periods were conducted and recorded entirely by T&B Company A. 
The measurements are listed below. The stamped recordation sheets are 
provided in Appendix A.
Test & Balance Company A 
(T&B Company A) equipment used to collect critical 
power measurements on one of the RTUs 
involved in the Major US Warehouse Retailer pilot. All data was 
recorded while both compressors were 
running at 100%. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
