®
1
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Report
Purpose of Energy Eﬃciency Study
The purpose of this jointly-conducted ECM study between the Major Botanical Garden and PTG engineering teams was 
threefold.  First, to verify the current capacity and efficiency of a 16-year-old water cooled chiller in relation to 
original equipment manufacturer (OEM) design specifications.  Second, to demonstrate what, if any, material 
performance changes occur in this same chiller after being treated with PermaFrost NMR ECM.  And third, to 
determine what, if any, financial benefits are associated with any efficiency improvements realized.  
The identification of pilot chiller involved in the study is recorded as follows:
 
• Nominal 300-Ton York Chiller, Mfg. Date: 1999, R-123, 208 volt-3 Phase, Model YTH1B1CE-CHK
ECM Product Brief
PermaFrost NMR® is a multi-patented surface science nanotechnology that uses Nucleo Molecular 
Regenerative (NMR®) technology as its core agent. A sustainable, one-time treatment with no down time 
required, PermaFrost NMR® lasts for the remaining life of any type of climate control system in which it is 
installed.  The direct benefits of PermaFrost NMR® are improved cooling efficiency and increased capacity, 
both of which result in lower overall costs to operate a system and extended equipment life. 
Methodology
After verifying the proper rates of water flowing through the chiller evaporator and condenser barrels before 
beginning the pilot, the subsequent measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and 
compiled in accordance with Option B of the IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) 
framework. 
The results presented below were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic 
engineering formulas::
 
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
 
• Actual Cooling Tons per Hour = (Evaporator GPM X 8.34 * 60 * Chilled Water Delta T) / 12,000 BTU
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
