PermaFrost NMR® Performance Report
Sports Arena B Center
July, 2013 
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure 
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® in one of the two main chiller units supporting the Sports Arena B Center located at the 
Sports Complex B in East [Northeast Location], NJ. Detailed forensic performance testing (outlined later 
in this report) was performed on the nominal 500-ton Carrier Evergreen Chiller using R22 refrigerant. 
Following testing, the unit was treated with the proper amount and type of the PermaFrost NMR® 
technology specially formulated for these types of systems.  Measurement and Verification (M&V) was 
conducted in identical fashion prior to installation and post-gestation, and was witnessed throughout by 
[Vice President Arena Operations], Vice President - Arena Operations, Regional Sports Authority, Sports Arena B 
Center. 
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity 
gained directly at the chiller was solely attributable to the 
PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This is a result of the reversal of 
thermal inefficiency on heat exchange surfaces.  
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® 
technology and operating at full load amps, the chiller 
showed an effective net average 24.4% reduction in 
kW/ton and an increase in capacity of 32.5%. Though total 
kW only dropped from 317.8 kW to 316.7 kW, the operating tonnage grew substantially from 388 tons to 514 
tons. This means the chiller is producing 126 more tons of cooling for slightly less energy. The restored 
capacity was also confirmed by the Carrier technicians who routinely service the chiller. [VP Arena Operations] called 
them in to validate the results. This capacity increase from the baseline performance level resulted in an 
effective average increase in COP of 33.1%. All of these factors directly correlate to what the Sports Arena B Center 
will realize in energy savings as they operate this chiller in the future under the same parameters.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
