Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces.
 
A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment was implemented to determine if the unit’s operational 
conditions were satisfactory. Baseline M&V were recorded and then the proper amount and type of 
PermaFrost NMR® was injected. The gestation period for the Sports Arena B Center pilot was four weeks on this 
particular chiller to allow it to achieve the required ~300+ hours of runtime to ensure adequate performance 
improvement time. At the end of this gestation period, Post M&V results were taken in the identical manner 
as in the baseline. 
The post measurements were taken on a warmer day than the baseline thereby creating slightly warmer 
condenser water returning from the cooling tower. Though this warmer condenser water acts to hold down 
the amount of improvement generated by the ECM, when analyzing the data no downward adjustments 
were made to the Post amp readings.  
The following report produces the utilization of the International Performance Measurement and 
Verification Protocol (IPMVP) as the M&V plan. [Vice President Arena Operations], Vice President - Arena Operations, 
Regional Sports Authority, Sports Arena B Center witnessed the collection of all the data used in this 
report. The final calculations were performed by Powertron Global®’s Forensic Mechanical Engineer, 
[Senior Energy Engineer].
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase)
 
 
kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
 
Percentage Eﬃciency = Measured BTUH / Manufacturers Design BTUH
 
Coeﬃcient of Performance (COP) = 12 / kW per Ton / 3.412
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
