Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, the refrigerant approach was also lowered 
from 5.6°F to 2.4°F. This represents a 57.1% improvement in approach, which is another measureable way to 
determine the thermodynamic enhancement brought about by the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. 
The resulting ECM performance improvements have created an ROI for the Sports Arena B Center that is measured 
in a few short months. The tables of data are available for review at the end of this report. Financial 
calculations determining the true ROI are proprietary to Sports Arena B Center under separate cover.  
Product Brief
         PermaFrost NMR® is a multi-patented nanotechnology surface chemistry Energy Control Measure 
(ECM) that uses Nucleo Molecular Regenerative® (NMR) technology as its core agent. A sustainable, 
one-time treatment with no down time required, PermaFrost NMR® lasts for the remaining life of any type 
of system in which it is installed. Examples of the types of commercial HVACR systems and equipment that 
PermaFrost NMR® has proven success with are direct expansion air systems (DX); chilled water systems 
(both flooded and DX; air and water cooled); ice making equipment; ammonia refrigeration plants (single 
compressor and cascade) and variable refrigerant flow (VRF) designs. The equipment utilized in these 
systems within our expanding portfolio of clients includes centrifugal (single and multi-stage), scroll, 
reciprocating and screw configurations.
The direct benefits of PermaFrost NMR® are improved cooling performance, increased capacity and
improved refrigerant velocity – all of which allow systems to achieve set point temperatures in a more rapid 
fashion which reduces compressor operating periods. The indirect benefits resulting from the enhanced 
thermodynamic characteristics following treatment include reduced run time, less kW hours used, less amp 
draw at the compressor, longer equipment life cycle time and a reduced carbon footprint for the Sports Arena B Center.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
