PermaFrost NMR® Data Center Report
Healthcare System A
November 6, 2012
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the detailed forensic performance testing (outlined later 
in this report) of the energy control measure (ECM) PermaFrost NMR® in the headquarters of Healthcare System A (Healthcare System A). [Data Center Operations Manager], Healthcare System A Data Center Operations Manager, and [Data Center Consultant] of Enabled Energy, 
Healthcare System A’s trusted data center consulting firm, personally witnessed all phases of the testing and data collection. 
The 7.7-ton HVAC Equipment Manufacturer split system supporting the power generator room uses R-22 refrigerant and was installed in 
December of 2003. On average the unit runs 6,570 hours each year. Immediately following the baseline testing, 
the unit was treated with 8 ounces of the PermaFrost NMR® product specially formulated for R-22 systems.  
Since there were no other ECM’s going on during this pilot project, the improvement in efficiency and restored 
capacity gained directly at the unit is solely attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The improvement in 
efficiency now enables the pilot unit to maintain the current set point utilizing a warmer refrigerant temperature 
while also providing drier supply air. In short, the unit is producing more Btu’s while using less energy, 
meaning the compressor doesn’t work as hard to do the same job as before. This greater operational efficiency is 
due to the restoration of the heat transfer ability of the evaporator and condenser coils, the removal of thermal inefficiency 
and improved refrigerant flow due to reduced laminar friction. 
Since the outside air temperatures in the baseline was cooler than that of the post reporting period, a slight 
downward adjustment in compressor Amperage was made to the resulting numbers.  The return air 
temperatures directly at the pilot unit were very similar. 
Following treatment with PermaFrost NMR® the pilot unit showed an average 31.7% reduction in both Total 
Watts and Watts/Ton and a 11.8% reduction in Amps, while at the same time producing an increase in capacity 
of 23,213 Btuh (nearly 2 full tons).  The unit also showed a substantial improvement in EER of 46.3%.  
Additionally, the pilot unit showed an average of 29.4% improvement in system efficiency, which is another 
very measurable way to view the thermodynamic enhancement of the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The result of 
the average ECM improvements is an ROI to Healthcare System A of just 4.3 months.  The tables of data and financial 
calculations are available for review at the end of this report.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
