PermaFrost NMR® Eﬃciency Report
Data Center Provider Data Center Group
May, 2013
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure (ECM) 
PermaFrost NMR® in the primary HVAC Roof Top Unit (RTU) serving the main offices at the Data Center Provider Data 
Center Facilities located at 6000 Technology Blvd, Sanston (Richmond), VA. Detailed forensic performance 
testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on a nominal 132.8 ton (476 kWR) packaged RTU 
outfitted with four compressors (two 30-HP compressors and two 35-HP compressors) using R22 refrigerant. 
Following testing, the RTU was treated with the proper amount and type of the PermaFrost NMR® 
technology specially formulated for these types of systems.  Measurement and Verification (M&V) was 
conducted pre-installation and post-gestation.
 
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly 
at the system was solely attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. 
This is a result of the reversal of thermal inefficiency on heat exchange surfaces, 
creating greater efficiency in refrigerant approach and the thermal
energy transfer abilities of the cooler and condenser vessels. 
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, the system showed an effective net 42.9% 
reduction in kW/ton based on the exact capacity measured in the baseline M&V and the post gestation 
M&V. With two of the four 31-ton (109 kWR) compressors operating at full load, the system showed a slight 
7.2% increase in kW consumption while simultaneously producing an increase in capacity of 36.6 tons (126 
kWR). This 88.2% increase from the baseline performance levels produced an effective in system efficiency of 
87.7%, which directly correlates to what Data Center Provider will realize in energy savings as they operate the system in the 
future under the same parameters. 
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® technology, the system also showed a substantial 
improvement in Enthalpy Delta, which is a critical HVAC measurement used to determine the thermodynamic 
enhancement brought about by the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The result of the ECM improvement is an ROI to 
Data Center Provider that is measured in months. The tables of data are available for review at the end of this report. Financial 
calculations determining the true ROI are proprietary to Data Center Provider under separate cover.  
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
