Energy Conservation Method (ECM) Content
The content within the following report will demonstrate the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to correct the 
effects of thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces. 
A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment was implemented to determine if the unit’s operational 
conditions were satisfactory. Baseline M&V were recorded and then the proper amount and type of 
PermaFrost NMR® was injected. The gestation period for the Data Center Provider pilot was six (6) months on this particular 
RTU to allow it to achieve the required ~300 hours of runtime. At the end of this gestation period, Post 
M&V results were taken in the identical manner as in the baseline, taking special care to match the same or 
very similar entering air temperatures and compressor discharge pressures. These are the two most critical 
measurements affected by the weather. When analyzing the data, no adjustments for weather were 
necessary. 
The following report produces the utilization of the International Performance Measurement and 
Verification Protocol (IPMVP) as the M&V plan. Charles Tedesco, Monsen Engineering, a Test and Balance 
Certified Professional developed these results under the guidelines of the International Performance 
Measurement and Verification Protocol (IPMVP), Sheet Metal and Air Conditioning Contractors of America 
(SMACNA), and The Associated Air Balance Council (AABC). The final calculations were performed by 
Powertron Global’s Forensic Mechanical Engineer, [Senior Energy Engineer].  
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase)   
 
BTUH = CFM * 4.5 (standard air) * Calculated Enthalpy Delta
 
kW / Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage or kWR
 
Percentage Eﬃciency = Measured BTUh / Manufacturers Design BTUh
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
