1
PermaFrost NMR® Walk-in Cooler Performance Report
Sports Arena A
January 14, 2013
Executive Summary
        This report contains specific information regarding the detailed forensic performance testing (outlined 
later in this report) of the energy control measure (ECM) PermaFrost NMR® in one of the many walk-in 
cooler units within Sports Arena A (Sports Arena A) in [Texas Location].  [Client Representative], Heating, 
Ventilation, Air Conditioning and Refrigeration (HVAC/R) Supervisor for the facility, personally witnessed 
all phases of the testing and data collection. 
The 6,500 Btu refrigeration system supporting the “Hot, 
Popped & Twisted” concession area uses R-22 refrigerant 
and was installed when the facility opened in 2001.
On average, the unit runs 7,300 hours each year.
Immediately following the baseline testing, the unit was 
treated with 1 unit of the PermaFrost NMR® product 
specially formulated for R-22 DX systems.
Since there were no other ECM’s going on during this pilot project, 
the improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly 
at the unit is solely attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  
Even though there was only a light load on the unit during the 
slightly abbreviated testing period (3 weeks versus the normal 4 
weeks), the pilot was still a success.  The unit now provides colder 
supply air and more Btu’s while using less watts per ton.  This 
greater operational efficiency is due to the restoration of the heat 
transfer ability of the evaporator and condenser coils, less metal-to- 
metal friction and improved refrigerant flow.  As the runtime and 
cooler load increases in the next month the improvements will 
continue to climb. In over 108,000 installations to date, the average 
improvement for a unit similar in age to this is over 20%.  
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
