   2 
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of two CRAC systems that 
support the Tech Company A facility in [Texas Location], TX. 
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the two pilot CRAC systems 
before and after the installation of the ECM to determine the impact on the three key elements that greatly 
affect the HVAC/R portion of the power bill as they relate to the original design specifications:
 
 
1. The cooling capacity the CRAC systems produced after 10 years in service, before and after the 
 
    administration of the ECM. 
 
2. The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the systems can deliver as     
 
    reflected in the kW/ton measurement, before and after the administration of the ECM. 
 
3. The thermal dynamic ability of the systems to perform in relation to operational design, before and 
 
    after the administration of the ECM.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the IPMVP 
(International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team consisted [Sustainability Director] of Major Technology Company; Raul 
Olvera of Facilities Services Provider; Powertron Global’s Director of Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer].  
Notes
The equipment tested were two 22-ton (nominal) CRAC systems manufactured by Liebert.  Both the baseline and post 
measurements were taken in identical fashion with recently NIST calibrated devices.  M&V equipment details and 
certification sheets are available by request. The CFM in the baseline and post for both systems were identical for each system. 
[M&O Supervisor] of Facilities Services Provider and [Sustainability Director] of Major Technology Company witnessed and signed off on the collections of data in both the baseline and post 
periods. The boundary of the testing was at the CRAC units and nothing else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the 
performance calculations is very high.
®
This report is provided to Tech Company A. It is confidential and proprietary to Powertron Global®, LLC. 
Its contents are subject to a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement. 
The terms of use are available at www.powertronglobal.com. The report is not to be distributed to any third party without written consent of Powertron Global®, LLC.
