• The CRACs were operating @ 40.7 tons of cooling capacity prior to
  installing ECM
• The CRACs now have 7.1 tons of restored cooling capacity after ECM
  equating to a 17.4% increase
• The CRACs were operating @ 2.46 COP prior to the ECM and
   3.00 following the ECM
• The average COP of the CRACs have  increased by 22%
   following the ECM
2.46
Baseline COP
COEFFICIENT
OF
PERFORMANCE
(COP)
40.7
tons
Baseline
100%
CAPACITY @
100% LOAD
2.46
3.00
40.7
47.8
3.00
Post ECM COP
47.8
tons Post ECM
22%
Improvement
in COP
7.1
tons of
Recovered
Capacity
TONNAGE
COP
Summary of HVAC/R Eﬃciency Study Results 
CRAC #59 & #60 Eﬃciency with PermaFrost NMR® ECM
Major Technology Company has the problem of thermal degradation in its HVAC systems. The lower operating tonnage and COP 
ratings measured on site are in line with the ASHRAE loss of performance and cost to operate numbers. The 
degraded equipment performance is costing Major Technology Company significant money and wasting energy. The pilot CRAC 
systems are using significantly more energy to operate than when it was new ten years earlier. 
The performance summary includes the measured efficiency and tonnage of both CRAC systems combined 
in the baseline and post testing periods demonstrating the impact of thermal degradation. Individual system 
results are outlined later in this report.
The implementation of PermaFrost NMR® ECM resulted in a restoration of 7.1 operating tons and an 
average improvement of 22% in Coefficient of Performance (COP), significantly reducing the cost to operate 
the systems throughout the year.
4
Baseline
PermaFrost NMR®
Installed
Baseline
PermaFrost NMR®
Installed
®
This report is provided to Tech Company A. It is confidential and proprietary to Powertron Global®, LLC. 
Its contents are subject to a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement. 
The terms of use are available at www.powertronglobal.com. The report is not to be distributed to any third party without written consent of Powertron Global®, LLC.
