3
Energy Conservation Method (ECM)
The content detailed in this report will first demonstrate the ability of the pilot CRAC systems to perform prior to 
the ECM being installed, as well as illustrate the amount of thermal degradation 
within the heat exchangers.
 
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP as the M&V plan. 
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor * 1.732/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
 
• Actual Cooling Tons per Hour = CFM X 4.5 * 60 * Enthalpy Delta / 12,000 BTU 
Notes
Following a diagnostic examination to determine the operational condition of the CRAC systems was satisfactory, Baseline 
M&V data was collected and recorded by the M&V team. Approximately 400+ runtime hours after installation of the 
ECM, the M&V team returned to take Post M&V measurements in the identical fashion as in the baseline. The delta of 
these measurements and associated calculations show the amount of capacity restored.
The following baseline IPMVP data points were recorded on June 15, 2106. The two systems were then treated with 
PermaFrost NMR® on the same day and allowed to run normally until July 22, 2016 to ensure the patented surface science 
nanotechnology had ample time to seat into all the metal surfaces of the heat exchangers. All measurements were taken at 
similar incoming air temperatures however the outdoor air temperature in the post was 6 degrees F warmer (93 deg F vs. 99 
deg F). The manufacturer provided a computerized load selection chart to illustrate that for every degree higher in ambient 
dry bulb temperature the system would lose approximately .60% of capacity (please see Appendix A). The total loss of 
capacity per degree equated to 3.61% and then this percentage was added to each system's measured total capacity in the 
post. For CRAC #59 an additional .97 tons was added to the measured total calculated capacity and for CRAC #60  an 
additional .69 tons was added.
Normalization of input kW (amperage specifically) was also employed in order to account for the 6 degrees F higher 
ambient dry bulb temperature. Compressors account for 70% of the total amperage consumed which is also true with these 
systems (please see Appendix A). The following formula was used: Actual Measured Amps x (Actual Measured Amps x 
0.7 x % increase in Ambient DB Temp). For CRAC #59 the post-measured amperage of 46.2 was reduced to 44.1. For 
CRAC #60 the post-measured amperage of 47.5 was reduced to 45.4 amps. These new amperage numbers were entered into 
standard electrical formula of V x A x PF x 1.732/1000 in order to normalize system kW.
®
This report is provided to Tech Company A. It is confidential and proprietary to Powertron Global®, LLC. 
Its contents are subject to a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement. 
The terms of use are available at www.powertronglobal.com. The report is not to be distributed to any third party without written consent of Powertron Global®, LLC.
