Energy Science Division
PermaFrost NMR® Eﬃciency Report
Global Flavor/Fragrance Company 
September, 2013 
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure (ECM) 
PermaFrost NMR® into a critical 50-ton HVAC split system supporting the Global Flavor/Fragrance Company blending and mixing 
area in their national headquarters and manufacturing plant facility at 300 North Street, Teterboro, NJ.  
Detailed forensic performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the entire system using 
R22 as the refrigerant. Following testing, the system was treated with the proper amount and type of the 
PermaFrost NMR® technology specially formulated for these types of systems.  Measurement and 
Verification (M&V) was conducted pre-installation and post-gestation. The purpose of the testing was to 1) 
show how the ECM improves the thermal performance of any system it is installed in, and 2) show that the 
ECM is safe and will not harm Global Flavor/Fragrance Company’s HVACR 
equipment.
The improvement in efficiency and restored 
capacity gained directly at the unit was solely 
attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This 
is a result of the reversal of thermal inefficiency on heat 
exchange surfaces.  
Following treatment with the ECM, the split 
system showed an effective net 9.1% reduction in 
kW/ton based on the exact capacity measured in 
the baseline M&V and the post gestation M&V 
when operating at 100% load. The ECM also produced an average increase cooling capacity of 10% or 6.16 
tons. Prior to the ECM, the system produced 61.62 tons of cooling as measured in-situ. After the ECM, the 
average combined tonnage produced increased to 67.78 tons. This 10% capacity increase from the baseline 
performance levels led to an effective average increase in COP of 9.9% and a calculated reduction in kWh of 
10.1%. All of these factors directly correlate to what Global Flavor/Fragrance Company will realize in energy savings as they operate 
this split system in the future as well as other HVAC equipment like Roof Top Units and Chillers under the 
similar parameters.
This 50-ton HVAC Equipment Manufacturer split system involved in the pilot supports the large 
blending and mixing room at the Global Flavor/Fragrance Company North American 
Headquarters and manufacturing facility located in Teterboro, NJ.   
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
