Company Description
 
Major OEM Electronics A is one of the most well-know international corporation majoring in electronic 
and home appliance in the world. Major OEM Electronics A Air Conditioner Business Division is a powerful expert in 
R&D, manufacturing, marketing and after-sales service of air conditioners and compressors.
Major OEM Electronics A is a comprehensive large-scale Chinese manufacturer established in 1981. 
From its roots as a small audio cassette-manufacturer over 23 years ago, Major OEM Electronics A now achieves 
annual sales exceeding 30 billion and exports to over ten different countries. It is one of the 
fastest-growing major industrial manufacturers, having achieved a compound annual growth 
rate of 47 percent in the past decade.
Major OEM Electronics A has diversified into many areas such as multimedia electronics, home electrical appliances, 
telecommunications equipment, information components and electronics components. From 
1996, Major OEM Electronics A successively acquired Hong Kong’s Luk's Enterprise for color televisions, Henan Meile 
Electronics Inc., the Mongolia Caihong TV Co., the Wuxi Yonggu TV Co. and the Zhongshan 
Suohua air-conditioning factory allowing it to develop and expand its commercial manufactur-
ing base and product offering.
Subsequently, Major OEM Electronics A has become one of the biggest home appliance manufacturing enterprises in 
China, taking the lead in the lines of TV Sets, VCD/DVD Players, room air conditioners, refrig-
erators, washing machines, mobile phones and the like. Major OEM Electronics A International Holdings was listed 
on the Hong Kong stock exchange in 1999. Major OEM Electronics A is now ranked fourth in China's 100 most 
prestigious Electronics and IT enterprises.
The Major OEM Electronics A Group continues to invest heavily in the research and development process of its 
products, having established a Chinese based world-class technology research centre in 1998.
Castel Electronics has undertaken the exclusive Australian distributorship of Major OEM Electronics A air condition-
ing in 2004. Major OEM Electronics A air conditioning range is high in quality & reliability, and well designed to 
compliment today's home decor. Major OEM Electronics A air conditioning represents excellent value featuring the 
latest product innovations and is covered by a long five year residential warranty.  
