• The Chiller was operating @ 92.6 tons of cooling capacity prior to
  installing ECM
• The Chiller now has 3.8 tons of restored cooling capacity after ECM
  equating to a 4.1% increase
• The Chiller was operating @ 2.93 COP prior to the ECM
• The COP of the Chiller has increased by 58% following the ECM
2.93
Baseline COP
COEFFICIENT
OF
PERFORMANCE
(COP)
92.6
tons
Baseline
100%
CAPACITY @
100% LOAD
2.93
4.63
92.6
96.4
4.63
Post ECM COP
96.4
tons Post ECM
58%
Improvement
in COP
3.8
tons of
Recovered
Capacity
TONNAGE
COP
Summary of HVAC/R Eﬃciency Study Results 
Chiller Eﬃciency with PermaFrost NMR® ECM
The Non-Profit Organization has the problem of thermal degradation in its Chillers and HVAC units. The lower operating 
tonnage and COP ratings measured on site are in line with the ASHRAE loss of performance and cost to 
operate numbers. The degraded equipment performance is costing the Non-Profit Organization significant money and wasting 
energy. The pilot chiller is using significantly more energy to operate than when it was new ten years earlier. 
The performance summary includes the measured efficiency and tonnage of the chiller in the baseline and 
post testing periods demonstrating the impact of thermal degradation. 
The implementation of PermaFrost NMR® ECM resulted in a restoration of 3.8 operating tons and an 
improvement of 58% in Coefficient of Performance (COP), significantly reducing the cost to operate the 
chiller throughout the year. The chiller can now deliver set point using fewer compressors to do so.
4
Baseline
PermaFrost NMR®
Installed
Baseline
PermaFrost NMR®
Installed
This report is provided to Non-Profit Organization. It is confidential and proprietary to Powertron Global®, LLC. 
Its contents are subject to a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement. 
The terms of use are available at www.powertronglobal.com. The report is not to be distributed to any third party without written consent of Powertron Global®, LLC.
