®
2
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team consisted Michael Doss of 
the Non-Profit Organization, Donogh Mc Sherry of [Energy Services Company]; and Powertron Global’s Director of Engineering, 
[Senior Energy Engineer].
Notes
The flow rate through the evaporator was near to design specifications in the baseline and post and the return chilled water 
entering the chiller in the baseline and post were identical so no adjustments were made. The outside air temps in the baseline 
were 80.1 deg F while the temperature in post was 87.7 deg F. (7.6 degrees higher) clearly demonstrating the chillers ability to 
transfer more heat through the heat exchangers.
This benchmark report demonstrated the deficiencies related to the thermal losses in the condenser and evaporator. The design 
of this chiller is 101.4 tons. This rating was certified by AHRI under the environmental conditions of 95 degrees F outdoor air 
temperature and an entering chilled water temperature of 55 degrees F. Therefore the baseline was normalized to represent what 
the actual tonnage that the chiller would be capable of delivering at full load. With the reduced environmental condition of 80 
degrees versus 95 degrees F of air that was entering the air cooled condenser during the test the tonnage or capacity should have 
been capable of producing 131 tons as shown in the baseline. During the capacity test four of the five compressors were required 
to operate to produce the design delta temperature performance of the chiller. 
The post analysis of the chiller demonstrated the reversal of the deficiencies related to the initial thermal losses in the condenser 
and evaporator. Again with the design capacity of 101.4 tons at the environmental condition of an outdoor air temperature of 
95 degrees F the normalized capacity design rating is 131 tons. During the post testing period the outdoor environmental 
conditions were much warmer than the baseline by approx: 7 degrees F. During the capacity test the number of compressors 
required to deliver the delta temperature performance of the chiller was reduced from four to two compressors required to 
operate. This demonstrates that after the injection of Permafrost NMR® this chiller can deliver the needed thermal performance 
as a result of the enhancement of the evaporator and condensers ability to transfer thermal energy with much less energy and 
less run time on the compressors thereby offering longer life cycle expectancy. 
Quite simply the demonstration of the thermal enhancement received from PermaFrost NMR® allows this chiller to deliver the 
needed tonnage with less compressors operating since the refrigeration effect of the evaporator and condenser have been 
thermally restored.
This report is provided to Non-Profit Organization. It is confidential and proprietary to Powertron Global®, LLC. 
Its contents are subject to a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement. 
The terms of use are available at www.powertronglobal.com. The report is not to be distributed to any third party without written consent of Powertron Global®, LLC.
