 
This document is proprietary and confidential to Powertron Global, LLC and is not to be modified, distributed all or in part to any third party 
without prior written approval. © Copyright 2017 Powertron Global, LLC. 
 
Society of Heating Refrigeration & Air Conditioning Engineers) 
 
The outdoor air temperature entering the air-cooled condenser coils of each unit 
will affect the design capacity. Therefore we have provided analysis of the twelve 
(12) day & nine (9) day periods to provide a performance profile of subsequent 
kW per ton, EER and COP across a variation of outdoor air temperatures 
consisting of a thirty (30) degree span (60ºF-90ºF) to demonstrate the current 
performance across the temperature span. 
 
The resultant data was extracted every five (5) seconds from the specific 
parameters measured throughout the entire day.  It was then applied to industry 
best practice engineering formulae developed by AHRI / ASHRAE (American 
Heating and Refrigeration Institute / American Society of Heating Refrigeration & 
Air Conditioning Engineers) for comparison: 
 
Kilo-watt (kW) = Volts (V) x Amps (A) x Power Factor (PF) x √3 / 1000 
British Thermal Units (BTU) = CFM x 4.5 x Enthalpy Delta  
Capacity / Tons = BTU / 12,000 
Kilo-watt per Ton (kW/Ton) = kW Energy / Tons (capacity) 
Co-Efficient of Performance (COP) = 12/kW per ton/ 3.412 
Energy Efficiency Ratio (EER) = BTU / Watts 
 
During all twenty-four hours in a day, outdoor air temperature entering the air-
cooled condenser coils of each system varies significantly. Accordingly, pre or 
baseline and post analysis and comparison of improved capacity is across a thirty 
(30) degree temperature span (60ºF-90ºF) for kW per Ton, COP and EER. 
 
 
To Determine Capacity: 
 
The evaporator entering air volume and the return enthalpy are measured by the 
CFM and inlet enthalpy sensors. The evaporator leaving air enthalpy is measured 
by the outlet air enthalpy sensor. The inlet and outlet enthalpies are subtracted 
from each other resulting in a sum called the Enthalpy delta. This enthalpy delta 
(∆) is used in the shown formula below. Other components of this formula 
complete the equation. These include the volume of air passing through the 
evaporator (CFM or Cubic feet of air per minute) and an engineering standard ratio 
of 4.5 (Ratio of Standard Air) or constant.  The result of this calculation yields the 
industry standard the British Thermal Unit (BTU), which is used to calculate the 
unit’s capacity in BTU. This BTU number is then divided by the constant 12,000 
which is to convert to refrigeration tons because every 12,000 BTUs equals 1 Ton 
of HVAC capacity. The capacity formula is: 
 
 
