®
3
Energy Conservation Method (ECM)
The content within the following report demonstrates the ability of PermaFrost NMR® to correct the effects of 
thermal degradation and fouling on the heat exchange surfaces. 
 
A diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment was implemented to determine if the operational conditions 
of the systems were satisfactory. Baseline M&V was recorded on the unit and then the proper amount and 
type of PermaFrost NMR® was injected directly into the suction side of the refrigerant loop. The gestation 
period for the pilot was approximately 11 months due to an abnormally cold winter that resulted in cold lake 
temperatures not allowing the ambient temperature to get warm enough. The chiller has been running most of 
the summer, just not at full capacity due to very mild summer temperatures. At the end of this gestation 
period, Post M&V results were taken in the identical manner as in the baseline, taking special care to match 
the same outside air temperatures. The chiller comes on line when the ambient temperature is above 55 deg. 
There was not enough of a load on the building to keep the chiller running at 100% capacity long enough to 
take the post readings until late in the summer. Standard procedure is to match the ambient temperature from 
the baseline test. 
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
 
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
 
• Actual Cooling Tons per Hour = Evaporator GPM X 8.34 * 60 * Chilled Water Delta T / 12,000 BTU 
 
• Refrigerant Approach = Supply Water Temp – Saturated Evaporator Temp
Notes 
Pursuant to AHRI performance certification testing, air cooled chillers under 200 tons are categorized under standard 
testing protocols. Testing limits are set to 95 deg f entering air temperature for the air cooled condensers and 55 degree 
entering chilled water temperature. 
These standards are difficult to replicate in-situ therefore when these levels are either lower or higher then the standards 
capacity will be affected. An example is lower than 95 degree entering condenser air will produce cooler condensed liquid 
refrigerant temperature thereby creating additional capacity in BTU's. Conversely higher temperature will reduce this 
capacity. Identical result will occur when the entering chilled water temperature is either reduced or increased.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
