®
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Report
Purpose of Energy Eﬃciency Study
The purpose of this study is to verify that the restored capacity produced two years ago when all four rooftop 
units (RTU’s) were first treated with the PermaFrost NMR® is being sustained.  This same efficiency 
improvement is then quantified into dollars saved by National Restaurant Chain in the treated RTU’s. 
The roof top units involved in this study are representative of a great majority of the portfolio of equipment 
operated by National Restaurant Chain. The same information gathered in the study is then extrapolated out across the 
entire National Restaurant Chain portfolio to closely estimate what capacity has already been lost in term of increased 
energy costs. This same extrapolation methodology is also used to estimate what the potential future avoided 
wasted energy costs are expected to be when treating all RTU’s, refrigeration and ice machines.  
Many industry leading organizations, including the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air 
Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), project that all heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration 
(HVACR) units degrade in capacity and efficiency as they operate and age. Thermal degradation is caused by a 
phenomenon that is present in all HVACR equipment that operates as a vapor compression cycle associated 
with refrigerant and compressor lubricant. This thermal degradation is well documented by the HVACR industry 
and the original equipment manufacturers (OEM’s). Thermal degradation prevents units from operating at the 
original design efficiency, which leads to excessive run-times and additional kWh consumption.
1
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
