1
Study Summary
This report details the results of the recently completed comprehensive energy performance study conducted 
on a water-cooled system located in the Major US Telecom/Major Sports Venue in Arlington, TX.
The study was conducted from July 21, 2014 to January 8, 2016, the pilot was designed to illustrate the positive 
impact the PermaFrost NMR® energy control measure (ECM) would have on the overall cooling performance 
of a water-cooled system supporting the stadium.
As demonstrated in this field trial, PermaFrost NMR® restores the capacity lost over time due to fouling of the 
heat exchange surfaces. This improvement in thermal performance will manifest itself in any or all of the 
following ways:
• The cooling capacity of the chiller produces after 6 years in service, before and after the 
administration of the ECM.
• Improved system efficiency, lowering cost to produce each ton of cooling required (i.e., kW/ton)     
• Restored thermal dynamic ability of the chiller to perform in relation to the operational design, 
before and after the administration of the ECM therefore reducing runtime and extending 
equipment life by 15%+.
The improvements demonstrated in this or any field test resulting from PermaFrost NMR® are dependent on 
factors such as age, condition, service history, runtime of the compressor and the design and application of 
each system. The results in this pilot were very consistent with 10 to 6-year historical performance averages.
The identiﬁcation of pilot chiller involved in the study is recorded as follows:
Nominal 970 - Ton York Chiller, Mfg. Date: 2009, R-134, 208 volt-3 Phase, Model YKKKKKH-CZFS  Serial EPR-131
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
