2
ECM Product Brief
PermaFrost NMR® is a multi-patented surface science nanotechnology that uses Nucleo Molecular 
Regenerative (NMR®) technology as its core agent. A sustainable, one-time treatment with no down time 
required, PermaFrost NMR® lasts for the remaining life of any type of climate control system in which it is 
installed.  The direct benefits of PermaFrost NMR® are improved cooling efficiency and restored capacity, both 
of which result in lower overall costs to operate a system and extended equipment life. 
Methodology
After verifying the proper rates of water flowing through the chiller evaporator and condenser barrels before 
beginning the pilot, the subsequent measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and 
compiled in accordance with Option B of the IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) 
framework and AHRI standard 550/590.
The results presented below were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic 
engineering formulas:
 
• kW = Volts * Amps * .88 * 1.732 / 1000 (for 3-Phase)
 
• kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
 
• Actual Cooling Tons per Hour = (Evaporator GPM X 8.34 * 60 * Chilled Water Delta T) / 12,000 BTU
Notes
Following a diagnostic examination to determine the operational condition of the chiller was satisfactory, Baseline M&V 
data was collected and recorded by the M&V team. 350+ runtime hours after installation of the ECM, the M&V team 
returned on a very similar weather day to the Baseline to take Post M&V measurements in the identical fashion as in the 
baseline. The delta of these measurements and associated calculations show the amount of capacity restored.
The GPM was recorded on Jul 14, 2014 using an instrument recently calibrated under the constraints of the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to insure accurate flow measurements through the evaporator. The 
remaining measurements were taken directly from the chiller’s control panel. The chiller was then treated with with 
PermaFrost NMR® on Dec 9, 2015 and allowed to run normally until Jan 8, 2016 to ensure the technology had ample 
time to seat into all the metal surfaces of the heat exchangers. All measurements were taken at nearly identical incoming 
water temperatures. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
