PermaFrost NMR® Chiller Report
Military Base A - Main Chiller Plant - Chiller #3
September 22, 2012
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® in chiller #3 of the main chiller plant at Military Base A in MD.  Detailed
forensic performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on a nominal 170-ton water
cooled chiller using R-123 refrigerant serving the Defense Support Contractor.
[Government Services Director], Deputy Director of Government Services for [Energy Services Company], personally witnessed all phases of the
testing and data collection. Following testing, the unit was treated with the proper amount and type of
PermaFrost NMR® product formulated for chiller systems.
  
The improvement in efficiency and restored capacity gained directly at the chiller was solely attributable to 
the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. It now provides colder supply air with warmer refrigerant.  This greater 
efficiency in refrigerant approach is due to the restoration of 
the heat transfer ability of the evaporator and condenser coils.  
Following treatment with PermaFrost NMR®, while operating 
at 100% load, the chiller showed a 16.8% reduction in kW and a 
17.3% reduction in Amps while at the same time producing an 
increase of 39,600 Btuh or 3.9% more tonnage.  The chiller also 
showed a substantial reduction in kW/Ton of 20% and a 25% 
improvement in COP.  Additionally, the chiller showed a 
22.1% improvement in approach, which is another measurable 
way to view the thermodynamic enhancement of the 
PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  The result of the average ECM 
improvements is an ROI to Military Base A of just 12.5 months based on 
the runtime information taken directly off the data logger on 
the chiller.  The tables of data and financial calculations are 
available for review at the end of this report.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
