®
7
HVAC/R Eﬃciency Study Results
Cost to West Lake High School/Municipal School District ISD to Operate the DX Unit Baseline vs Post
The next chart illustrates the just how much money the efficiency performance loss in the pilot DX unit was 
costing West Lake HS/Municipal School District ISD in the way of wasted energy each and every day they were operating prior to 
the ECM. The average cost to operate this unit as calculated in kW/ ton was 1.81 in the Baseline. When new, the 
kW/ton rating for units like these usually range from 1.0-1.2 kW/ton. This means West Lake HS/Municipal School District ISD 
was paying up to 37% more than design for energy to run the DX unit as a direct result of the baseline reduced 
level of performance. The kW/ton ratings measured on site in Austin, Texas were very much in line with the 
ASHRAE loss of performance and cost to operate numbers.
  
The restored average kW/ton rating following the ECM is now 1.14. This represents a 37% reduction in energy 
costs from the baseline for every ton of cooling produced. It also brings down the West Lake HS/Municipal School District ISD 
costs to operate the unit to just above design. This will result in an initial payback period to West Lake 
HS/Municipal School District ISD of approximately 7.3 months. Over just a few years these accumulated savings will greatly 
reduce the eventual CapEx costs to replace the DX unit when it finally reaches the end of its useful life.     
Original Design
Eﬃciency
ASHRAE Projected
Cost to Operate
Over Time
Actual Municipal School District ISD to
Operate Major US Warehouse Retailer
Systems As Is
Operational Cost %
Actual Municipal School District ISD HVAC/R Operating Cost
vs. ASHRAE Historical Performance
-40
-20
00
20
40
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
 
 
 
EXPECTED COST
Age of HVAC/R Units
37%
in Energy
Savings
Age of Municipal School District ISD
Equipment
10
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
