®
2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of one of dozens of DX 
units that support the West Lake High School Campus in Austin, Texas. 
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the pilot DX unit before and after 
the installation of the PermaFrost NMR® ECM to determine the impact on the three key elements that greatly 
affect Municipal School District ISD HVAC power bill as they relate to the original design specifications: 
 
1.  The cooling capacity the DX unit is capable of producing after 10 years in service. 
 
2.  The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the DX unit is delivering as 
 
     reflected in the kW/ton measurement. 
 
3.  The thermal dynamic ability of the DX unit to still perform at or close to operational design.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team consisted of Powertron 
Global’s Director of Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer] and [Principal Engineer], Principal Engineer for ESA Energy 
Systems Associates, Inc. [Principal Engineer] was acting as the Municipal School District ISD Commissioner, overseeing the Project for 
Municipal School District ISD. Several members of the Municipal School District ISD Maintenance team participated in the testing process and were a 
great help with their intricate knowledge of the nuances associated with the pilot unit.
The baseline day chosen to test the RTU was an average day temperature and humidity-wise for the Austin, 
TX area which ensured repeatability of similar weather for the post testing measurements. The boundary of 
the testing was each of the RTU and nothing else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance 
calculations is very high.
Notes 
The unit measured serviced the main High School Gymnasium hallway. The DX unit tested was found to have a faulty 
pulley and had to be stabilized before we could start the baseline. Both the baseline and post measurements were taken 
with outside air temperatures of 88 degrees. 
The boundary of the testing was the DX unit and nothing else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance 
calculations is very high.
 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
