®
11
Closing Observations
In addition to significantly reducing HVAC/R costs at Municipal School District ISD by implementing PermaFrost NMR®, Municipal School District 
ISD can also expect to benefit by increased service life and reduced maintenance costs. Not only will the 
system last longer because it runs less (by reaching set-point temperatures faster), but PermaFrost NMR® is 
also proven to increase lubricity above the OEM oil and it also includes preventative maintenance measures 
such as anti-humectants, acid scavengers, as well as seal/bearing conditioners - all of which contribute to the 
life extension of the equipment. Considering Municipal School District ISD's process of acquiring new HVAC assets (via bonds), 
Municipal School District ISD can now reconsider future bond amounts by delaying the replacement of some units, reducing the 
amount required to fund new capital equipment.
Municipal School District ISD can also expect an improvement in indoor air quality by reducing humidity levels due to the 
efficiency restoration. Lower humidity levels also help reduce the potential for mold, mildew, etc. The drop 
in humidity can allow Municipal School District ISD to operate at a higher thermostat setting by one to three degrees, while 
keeping comfort levels unchanged and drive the kWh savings even further. 
Not only will Municipal School District ISD will be making significant progress towards exceeding efficiency goals by 
implementing PermaFrost NMR®, it will also help solidify their role as a leader in sustainability and 
environmental stewardship by making a meaningful reduction to their carbon footprint. When calculated 
over several years a PermaFrost NMR® implementation can free up large amounts of capital for Municipal School District ISD - 
the total savings which include energy savings, maintenance savings, extended equipment life, reduced 
demand charges, etc. are significant.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
