 Study Overview
This report details the results of the recently completed comprehensive energy performance study conducted on 
seven small DX systems that service the three Major Hotel Chain Resort properties in Palm Beach, [Caribbean Location].
Running from August 25 to October 12, 2015, the pilot was designed to illustrate the positive impact the 
PermaFrost NMR® energy control measure (ECM) would have on the overall cooling performance of common 
types of cooling systems supporting the three Major Hotel Chain Resort properties. A variety of systems were tested at the 
location ranging from .75 to 2 tons.
As demonstrated in this ﬁeld trial, PermaFrost NMR® restores the capacity lost over time due to fouling of the heat 
exchange surfaces. This improvement in thermal performance will manifest itself in any or all of the following ways:
 
• Restored additional capacity produces colder, drier air to better satisfy room and suite loads
 
• Improved system efﬁciency, lowering cost to produce each ton of cooling required (i.e., kW/ton)     
 
• Restored thermal efﬁciency, reducing runtime and extending useful equipment life by 15% or more
The improvements demonstrated in this or any ﬁeld test resulting from PermaFrost NMR® are dependent on 
factors such as age, condition, service history, runtime of one or both compressors and the design and 
application of each system. The results in this pilot were very consistent with 10-year historical performance 
averages as well as the recent laboratory study completed in May, 2015 by Underwriters Laboratories (UL) in their 
testing chambers in [Texas Location], TX.
Summary of Financial Beneﬁts Generated 
The Major Hotel Chain Surf Club, the Major Hotel Chain Ocean Club and the Major Hotel Chain Resort will realize the following ﬁnancial beneﬁts 
from investing a combined $1,650 on the installation of PermaFrost NMR® in the seven HVAC systems included in 
this study:
 
1.    Energy Savings (annual) 
 
 
 
 
 
$ 3,237
 
2.    Avoided cost of additional capacity replacement  
 
$ 1,800
 
3.    Deferred capital costs 
 
 
 
 
 
Extends life by 15-20%
 
5.    Payback Period (energy only) 
 
 
 
 
6.1 Months
 
6.   Annual Rate of Return (energy only) 
 
 
 
196%
 
7.   Return On Investment (5 years) 
 
 
 
 
981%
2
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
