PermaFrost NMR® Eﬃciency Report
Company A  
August, 2013
Executive Summary
         This report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure (ECM) 
PermaFrost NMR® in two HVAC Roof Top Units (RTUs) supporting the Company A Diagnostic Clinic located at 
[Brooklyn Location].  Detailed forensic performance testing (outlined later in this report) was 
performed on the two RTUs, the first a 5-ton RTU supporting the rear break area and the second a 10-ton 
RTU supporting the front Lobby and waiting area. Both of the RTUs are using R22 refrigerant.  Following 
testing, the RTUs were treated with the proper amount and type of the PermaFrost NMR® technology 
specially formulated for these types of systems.  Measurement and Verification (M&V) was conducted 
pre-installation and post-gestation.
The improvement in efficiency and restored 
capacity gained directly at the units was solely 
attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM. This 
is a result of the reversal of thermal inefficiency on heat 
exchange surfaces. 
Following treatment with the PermaFrost NMR® 
technology, the RTUs showed an effective net 
average 22.8% reduction in kW/ton based on the 
exact capacity measured in the baseline M&V and 
the post gestation M&V. With each of the RTUs 
operating at 100%, the units showed an average 
6.3% reduction in kWh while simultaneously producing 2.11 more tons or 18.2% more overall system 
capacity.  Prior to the ECM, the RTUs were averaging 73.5% of design capacity as measured in-situ. After the 
ECM, the RTUs jumped up to 89.4% of original design specification. This 15.9% efficiency improvement 
compared to design combined with the 25% improvement in refrigerant approach from the baseline 
performance levels led to an effective average increase in COP of 31.6%. All of these factors directly correlate 
to what Company A will realize in energy savings as they operate these RTUs in the future as well as all 
their other HVAC equipment like Roof Top Units and Chillers under the similar parameters. 
Energy Science Division
The 10-ton Lobby RTU (similar to the one pictured above) runs 
approximately 3,000 annually, while the smaller Break Area RTU runs 
only approximately 2,000 annually. Both RTUs were put into service 
in 2005.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
