3
Energy Conservation Method (ECM)
The content detailed in this report will first demonstrate the ability of the three pilot RTUs to perform prior to 
the ECM being installed, as well as illustrate the thermal degradation that naturally occurs in heat
exchangers over time.
 
The following report produces the utilization of the IPMVP as the M&V plan. 
The results were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic engineering formulas:
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
• Ton = (Airflow * 4.5 * Enthalpy Delta) / 12,000 
• kW/Ton = kW / Actual Tonnage 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = (12 / kW per ton /3.412)
Notes 
Following a diagnostic examination of the pilot equipment to determine the operational condition of the systems was 
satisfactory, Baseline M&V data was collected and recorded by the M&V team. Forty days after installation of the ECM, 
the M&V team returned on a very similar weather day to the Baseline to take Post M&V measurements in the identical 
fashion as in the Baseline. The delta of these measurements and associated calculations show the amount of capacity 
restored.
During the course of the testing, it was discovered that all 18 of the compressors in the three RTUs measured have been 
replaced at least one time in the 16 years each of the RTUs has been in operation. In general though, the RTUs were 
determined to be performing satisfactorily from a mechanical standpoint at the start of the testing period.
The following IPMVP data points were recorded on 28 October 2013 using recently calibrated devices by NIST 
(National Institutes of Standards and Technology) to insure measurement accuracy. The three RTUs were then treated 
with PermaFrost NMR® on 4 April 2014 and allowed to run normally until 12 May 2014 to ensure the patented 
surface science nanotechnology had ample time to seat into all the metal surfaces of the heat exchangers. All 
measurements were taken at full load (all compressors running) and at identical outdoor air temperatures and similar 
mid-day times and attendance.
The collection of the data in both the baseline and post periods was assisted and witnessed by HVAC Services Provider/HVAC Equipment Manufacturer.  
The measurements are listed below. Photographic evidence of each of the readings is also available under separate cover 
to validate the accuracy of the data. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
