2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of the large rooftop 
packaged units (RTU’s) that support the Major US Theater Chain [Location] theater facility in [Texas City]. 
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on three of the units before and 
after the installation of the ECM to determine the impact on the three key elements that greatly affect Major US Theater Chain’s 
HVAC power bill as they relate to the original design specifications:
 
1.  The cooling capacity the RTUs are capable of producing after 16 years in service. 
2.  The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the RTUs are delivering as 
     reflected in the kW/ton measurement. 
3.  The thermal dynamic ability of the equipment to still perform at or close to operational design.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team consisted of Powertron 
Global’s Director of Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer] and [HVAC Field Technician], Sr. Field Technician for [Virginia Location] 
Services /HVAC Equipment Manufacturer. Under contract to maintain the equipment, HVAC Services Provider participated in the entire testing 
process and was a tremendous help with their intricate knowledge of the nuances associated with each of the 
pilot units. 
Notes 
The day chosen to test was the most common type of day in Houston of approximately 80 degrees according to national 
BIN data. The weather conditions along with the moviegoers patronizing the theater provided an adequate heat load on 
the facility to ensure all compressors would remain running during the actual data collection period required for each. 
The boundary of the testing was each of the RTU’s and nothing else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the 
performance calculations is very high.
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
