 
This document is proprietary and confidential to Powertron Global, LLC and is not to be modified, distributed all or in part to any third party 
without prior written approval. © Copyright 2018 Powertron Global, LLC. 
 
 
The outdoor air temperature entering the air-cooled condenser coils of each unit 
will affect the design capacity. An analysis is provided of the seven (7) day & four 
(4) day periods of performance profiles of subsequent kW/ton, EER and COP 
across a variation of outdoor air temperatures spanning a twenty-five (25) degree 
span (70ºF-95ºF). 
 
Total BTUH was developed along with total kW consumption by measuring all 
required data points (35 points - see appendix for points measured) and entering 
them into industry best practice engineering formulae. All measurement hardware 
was certified under NIST or CE standards. Engineering formulae was developed 
by AHRI / ASHRAE (American Heating and Refrigeration Institute / American 
Society of Heating Refrigeration & Air Conditioning Engineers): 
 
Kilo-watt (kW) = Volts (V) x Amps (A) x Power Factor (PF) x √3 / 1000 
British Thermal Units (BTU) = CFM x 4.5 x Enthalpy Delta  
Capacity / Tons = BTU / 12,000 
Kilo-watt per Ton (kW/Ton) = kW Energy / Tons (capacity) 
Co-Efficient of Performance (COP) = 12/kW per ton/ 3.412 
Energy Efficiency Ratio (EER) = BTU / Watts 
 
 
To Determine Capacity: 
 
The evaporator entering air volume and the return enthalpy are measured by the 
CFM and inlet enthalpy sensors. The evaporator leaving air enthalpy is measured 
by the outlet air enthalpy sensor. The inlet and outlet enthalpies are subtracted 
from each other resulting in a sum called the Enthalpy delta. This enthalpy delta 
(∆) is used in the shown formula below. Other components of this formula 
complete the equation. These include the volume of air passing through the 
evaporator (CFM or Cubic feet of air per minute) and an engineering standard ratio 
of 4.5 (Ratio of Standard Air) or constant.  The result of this calculation yields the 
industry standard the British Thermal Unit (BTU), which is used to calculate the 
unit’s capacity in BTU. This BTU number is then divided by the constant 12,000 
which is to convert to refrigeration tons because every 12,000 BTUs equals 1 Ton 
of HVAC capacity. The capacity formula is: 
 
 
CFM x 4.5 x Enthalpy ∆ = BTUs / 12,000 = Tons (capacity) 
 
 
CFM – Cubic Feet per Minute of Air Flow or Air Volume 
4.5 – Ratio of Standard Air (constant) 
Enthalpy ∆ - Enthalpy Delta of the Inlet – Outlet Enthalpy 
