PermaFrost NMR® Performance Report
Data Center Computer Room Air Conditioners (CRAC)
September 22, 2012
Executive Summary
         TThis report contains specific information regarding the installation of the energy control measure
(ECM) PermaFrost NMR® in the two primary CRAC units supporting the Defense Information Systems
Agency Data Control Center at Military Base A in MD.  Detailed forensic performance testing
(outlined later in this report) was performed on the two 10-ton air cooled Liebert units using R-22
refrigerant. [Government Services Director], Deputy Director of Government Services for [Energy Services Company], personally witnessed
all phases of the testing and data collection.
 
The pilot units were both installed in June of 2007. Unit #2 has 19,500 hours of runtime and Unit #3,
which also helps cool a small power room adjacent to the Data Control Center, has 29,500 hours of runtime.
Immediately following the baseline testing, both units were treated with the proper amount and type of
PermaFrost NMR® product formulated for R-22 DX systems.
  
Since there were no other ECM’s going on during this pilot project, the improvement in efficiency and 
restored capacity gained directly at the units is solely attributable to the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.   The 
CRAC units now provide colder and drier supply air while using less power. This greater operational 
efficiency is due to the restoration of the heat transfer ability of the evaporator and condenser coils.  
Following treatment with PermaFrost NMR® and properly adjusting for the slightly cooler outside post 
treatment temperatures, the two CRAC units showed an average 17.9% reduction in kW and a 4% reduction 
in Amps while at the same time producing an increase in coil capacity of 27,540 Btuh or 13.9% more 
tonnage.  The units also showed a substantial reduction in Watts/Ton of 17.9% and a 15.9% improvement in 
the Enthalpy Delta.  Additionally, the two CRAC units showed an average of 22.3% improvement in EER, 
which is another measurable way to view the thermodynamic enhancement of the PermaFrost NMR® ECM.  
The result of the average ECM improvements is an ROI to Military Base A of just 14.2 months based on the runtime 
information taken directly off the runtime hours log of both units.  The tables of data and financial 
calculations are available for review at the end of this report.
Energy Science Division
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
