®
3
3. Demonstrate the sustainability of the ECM by showing 90% or more of the material performance 
improvements generated in 2011, just one month after being treated with PermaFrost NMR®, still 
remained in this same cooling unit four years later. 
4. After nine years in service, demonstrate the effectiveness and sustainability of the ECM by increasing 
the “as-is” efficiency and capacity of the treated pilot unit by more than 10% when compared to an 
identical untreated control unit performing the same function on another floor. 
5. To support an effective business case for further deployments of the ECM within the Commercial Real Estate Developer 
portfolio of properties, demonstrate financial benefits associated with efficiency improvements realized 
over the duration of the study. These benefits must be equivalent to a 24-month or less payback to 
Commercial Real Estate Developer on their initial pilot project costs.  
ECM Product Brief
PermaFrost NMR® is a multi-patented surface science nanotechnology that uses Nucleo Molecular 
Regenerative (NMR®) technology as its core agent. A sustainable, one-time treatment with no down time 
required, PermaFrost NMR® lasts for the remaining life of any type of climate control system in which it is 
installed. The direct benefits of PermaFrost NMR® are improved cooling efficiency and increased capacity, both 
of which result in lower overall costs to operate a system and extended equipment life.
Methodology
After verifying the amount of air flowing across the evaporator coil before beginning the pilot, the subsequent 
measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with Option B of 
the IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. 
The results presented below were formulated by entering the data into the following thermodynamic 
engineering formulas:
 
• kW = Volts * Amps * Power Factor of 1.47/1000 (for 3-Phase) 
 
• kW/ton = Actual Measured Energy / Actual Measured Capacity 
 
• Coefficient of Performance (COP) = 12 / (kW/ton) /3.412
 
• Actual Cooling Capacity per Hour = (Measured CFM * 4.5 * Enthalpy Delta T) / 12,000 BTU
 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
