®
1
Study Summary
The +20% improved efficiency (COP) measured four years ago has sustained and is still present in the 
PermaFrost NMR® treated unit. Compared to the untreated units, it is still operating approximately 24.6% 
more efficiently four years later. If all of the units in the building (7000 tons) were treated at the time of the 
initial pilot the site would have saved $4,326,000 in energy costs on an initial investment of $875,000. This equates 
to a four year ROI of 595%.  
Study Overview
This report details the results of the recently completed comprehensive four-year energy performance study 
conducted at the Commercial Real Estate Developer Commercial Tower A Building in New York, NY.  The study ran from August 2011 
to August 2015.
The pilot was designed to illustrate the positive impact the PermaFrost NMR® energy control measure (ECM) 
would have in both the short term and long term on the overall cooling performance of a nominal 32-ton package 
unit. The improvements for this or any field test resulting from PermaFrost NMR® are dependent on factors such 
as age, condition, service history, design and application of each unit. In this particular analysis the results were 
in line with 13 year historical averages. The 53rd floor pilot unit and the identical untreated control unit on the 
32nd floor support similar sized east side elevator motor rooms and both were put into full service in 2006. 
Highlights of the study when comparing the pilot unit to itself before and 30 days and four 
years after treatment include the following:
• When initially tested in 2011 after just five years in service, the pilot unit was producing 27.7 tons of 
cooling capacity. Thirty days after treatment, the cooling capacity jumped 18.8% to 32.9 tons. Four years 
after initial treatment, the pilot unit is sustaining a cooling capacity of 32.5 tons.
• When the efficiency improvements were measured on the treated system four year ago, the initial 
payback was estimated to be less than 12 months. The current efficiency of the system shows that 
Commercial Real Estate Developer realized the initial payback in 11.9 months. 
• The annual cost to operate the pilot unit was estimated to be $25,396 before initial treatment with 
PermaFrost NMR®. Four years later, the cost to run the unit is $21,341 per year illustrating the 
sustainability of the PermaFrost NMR® technology. 
Please be aware that our companies have a non-disclosure agreement in place and this document is covered under that agreement and the terms of use on our website. 
This document is not to be distributed to any third party and is not to be in the public domain without our written approval. © Copyright 2016 Powertron Global, LLC.
