®
2
Process
This report contains specific information regarding the current performance profile of four similar RTU’s treated 
two years ago with PermaFrost NMR® compared to where ASHRAE degradation averages had them performing 
prior to treatment. A fifth similar RTU that was installed on the roof of one of the same four restaurants six 
months following initial equipment PermaFrost NMR® treatment (which was not treated) serves as a control unit 
and as another valuable way to demonstrate the value gained through the use of PermaFrost NMR®. 
Detailed performance testing (outlined later in this report) was performed on the pilot RTU’s unit after the 
installation of PermaFrost NMR® to determine the impact on the three key elements that greatly affect Ruby 
Tuesday’s power bill as they relate to the original design specifications: 
 
1.  The cooling capacity the RTU’s are capable of producing after an average of 11 years in service.
 
2.  The actual cost of power required to produce the amount of cooling tons the RTU’s are delivering as 
      
     reflected in the kW/ton measurement. 
 
3.  The thermal dynamic ability of the RTU’s to continue to perform at or close to operational design.
Methodology
The measurements used in the efficiency calculations were collected and compiled in accordance with the 
IPMVP (International Measurement and Verification Protocol) framework. The team consisted of 
Energy Consulting Partner's CEO, [CEO] and Powertron Global’s Director of Engineering, [Senior Energy Engineer].  The 
manager on duty at each of the locations signed off on all the measurements taken prior to the team leaving 
each location, preserving the integrity of the data.
Notes 
Since power bills for the four restaurants already show savings, the focus of the field M&V was on determining the current 
performance levels of the four pilot RTU’s. The RTU’s were also compared to historical performance characteristics of 
themselves two years earlier and to a newer similar RTU that was not treated with the ECM. This helps to closely estimate 
the amount of savings already achieved by Restaurant Chain A and helps determine the impact of future savings.  
The readings were taken in the same conditions used by Air-Conditioning, Heating, & Refrigeration Institute (AHRI) to 
issue capacity ratings. All RTU’s were tested in sunny conditions with outside air temperatures between 80-82 degrees. 
The boundary of the testing was the RTU’s and nothing else; therefore confidence in the accuracy of the performance 
calculations is very high.
Property of Powertron Global®
